
## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
appeal" includes any proceeding to set aside
or vary any judgment of the Court appealed
from;
Court" means the Exchequer Court of
Canada and includes the President and the
puisne judges of that Court, respectively,
and, as well, every district, deputy and
surrogate judge of that Court, whenever
any thereof are exercising as a court an}"
jurisdiction in Admiralty of that Court ;
deputy judge" means a deputy district judge
in Admiralty of the Exchequer Court,
appointed pursuant to section 7 ;
district judge" means a district judge in
Admiralty of the Exchequer Court , appoint
ed pursuant to section 4, and includes,
subject to sections 7 to 10, every deputy
judge and surrogate judge ;
"Exchequer Court" means the Exchequer
Court of Canada ;
"final judgment" means any judgment,
decree, rule, order or decision that deter
mines, in whole or in part any substantive
right of any of the parties in controversy in
any judicial proceeding;
"judge" includes the President and the puisne
judges of the Exchequer Court and also
every district, deputy or surrogate judge;
"judge of the Exchequer Court" means the
President or a puisne judge of that Court ;
includes any description of vessel used
in navigation and not propelled by oars ;
judge" means a surrogate judge in
Admiralty of the Exchequer Court , appoint
ed pursuant to section 8. R.S., c. 1, s. 2.

## CONSTITUTION OF COURT

**3.** (1) The Exchequer Court of Canada
continues to be a Court of Admiralty and to
be as such a court of record and has and shall
exercise on its Admiralty side general juris
diction in Admiralty.
(2) The President and the puisne judges of
the Exchequer Court have and shall exercise
throughout Canada the Admiralty jurisdic
tion of the Court. R.S., c. 1, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint anj r judge of a superior or county
court, or any barrister of not less than ten
years standing, to be a district judge in
Admiralty of the Exchequer Court in and for
any Admiralty district.
(2) Subject to section 10, every district judge
holds office during good behaviour, but he is
removable by the Governor in Council on
address of the Senate and House of Commons.
(3) A judge appointed pursuant to this
section shall be designated a district judge in
Admiralty of the Exchequer Court. R.S., c. 1,
s. 4.

**5.** Every district judge in Admiralty shall,
prior to entering on the duties of his office,
take, before a judge of the Exchequer Court
or a judge of any superior court, an oath in
the following form :
I do solemnly and sincerely swear that I
will duly and faithfully, and to the best of my skill and
knowledge, execute the powers and trusts reposed in me as
District Judge in Admiralty of the Exchequer Court in
and for the Admiralty District of (as the case may be). So
help me God.
R.S., c. \,s. 5.

**6.** Every district judge in Admiralty shall,
within the Admiralty district for which he is
appointed, have and exercise the jurisdiction,
and the powers and authority relating thereto,
of a judge of the Exchequer Court in respect
of the Admiralty jurisdiction of such Court.
R.S..C. 1,8. 6.

**7.** (1) A district judge in Admiralty or, if
he is incapacitated, a judge of the Exchequer
Court , may, with the approval of the Governor
in Council, appoint one or more deputy-
judges, not exceeding three, having the
qualifications of a district judge as provided
in section 4, and each deputy judge has and
shall exercise such jurisdiction, powers and
authority as are possessed by the district
judge.
(2) The appointment of a deputy judge is
not determined by the occurrence of a vacancy
in the office of the district judge.
(3) A district judge in Admiralty, or, if he
is incapacitated, a judge of the Exchequer
Court, may, with the approval of the Governor
in Council, at any time revoke the appoint
ment of a deputy judge. R.S., c. 1, s. 7: 1966-

**67.** c. 4, s. 1.
g. (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint for any district, or portion of an
Admiralty district, a surrogate judge or
judges.
(2) Any person having the qualifications of
a district judge in Admiralty may be
appointed a surrogate judge.
(3) A surrogate judge has such Admiralty
jurisdiction, powers and authority as may be
prescribed by general rules and orders of the
Court.
(4) A surrogate judge is entitled to be paid
such fees as are prescribed by general rules
and orders.
(5)  \ surrogate judge holds office during
pleasure, and his appointment is not deter
mined by the occurrence of a vacancy in the
office of the district judge of his district. R.S.,
c. l,s.8.

**9.** Every deputy judge and surrogate judge
shall, prior to entering on the duties of his
judge. R.S.. c. 1. s. 9.

**10.** Every local or district judge in Admi
deputy judge and surrogate judge ceases
hold office as such upon attaining the age
of seventy-five years. R.S., c. 1, s. 10.

## ADMIRALTY DISTRICTS AND REGISTRIES

**11.** The Governor in Council may. from
time to time,
  * (_a_) constitute any part of Canada an
Admiralty district for the purposes of this
Act ;
  * (_b_) assign a name to any such district and
change such name as he may think proper ;
  * (_c_) fix and change the limits of any such
district ;
  * (_d_) establish at some place within any
Admiralty district a registry of the Excheq
uer Court on its Admiralty side ; and
  * (_e_) divide the territory comprised in any
Admiralty district into two or more registry
divisions, and establish a registry of the
Exchequer Court on its Admiralty side at
some place in each of such divisions. R.S..
c. l,s. 11.

**12.** Until otherwise provided by the Gov
ernor in Council, the following Provinces each
constitute an Admiralty district for the
purposes of this Act, and a registry of the
Exchequer Court on its Admiralty side shall
be established and maintained within such
districts at the following places :
  * (_a_) the Province of Ontario, under the name
of "The Ontario Admiralty District", with
a registry in the city of Toronto ;
  * (_b_) the Province of Quebec, with a registry
in the City of Quebec and a registry in the
city of Montreal ;
  * (_c_) the Province of Xova Scotia, with a
registry in the city of Halifax ;
  * (_d_) the Province of New Brunswick, with a
registry in the city of Saint John ;
  * (_e_) the Province of British Columbia, with
a registry in the city of Victoria ;
  * (_f_) the Province of Prince Edward Island,
with a registry in the city of Charlottetown.
R.S., c. l,s. 12.

## ADMIRALTY REGISTRARS AND MARSHALS

**13.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint for any Admiralty district or for any
registry division of any district a registrar to
hold office during pleasure.
(2) Each sheriff and deputy sheriff in a
province is a marshal and deputy marshal,
respectively, of the Court for the Admiralty
district in which is located the county or
district for which he holds office. R.S., c. 1, s.
13; 1966-67, c. 4, s. 2.

**14.** (1) The Governor in Council may
authorize the payment of salary out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund to a surrogate
judge not exceeding four hundred dollars per
annum and to the registrar for an Admiralty
district not exceeding three hundred dollars
per annum.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act
or in the general rules and orders made under
this Act, a surrogate judge or registrar who is
in receipt of a salary under this section is not
entitled to the fees payable in respect of
anything done by or proceedings taken before
him, and all such fees shall be paid to the
Receiver General and form part of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. 1963, c. 19, s. 1.

## BARRISTERS AND ATTORNEYS

**15.** All persons who are barristers or
advocates in any of the provinces, may
practise as barristers, advocates and counsel
in the Court. R.S., c. 1, s. 15.

**16.** All persons who are attorneys or
solicitors of the superior courts in any of the
provinces, may practise as attorneys, solicitors
and proctors in the Court. R.S., c. 1, s. 16.
J7, All persons who practise as barristers,
advocates, attorneys, solicitors or proctors in
the Court, are officers of the Court. R.S., c. 1,
s. 17.
JURISDICTION

**18.** (1) The jurisdiction of the Court on its
Admiralty side extends to and shall be
exercised in respect of all navigable waters,
tidal and non-tidal, whether naturally navi
gable or artificially made so, and although
such waters are within the body of a county
or other judicial district, and, generally, such
jurisdiction shall, subject to this Act, be over
the like places, persons, matters and things as
the Admiralty jurisdiction now possessed by
the High Court of Justice in England, whether
existing by virtue of any statute or otherwise,
and be exercised by the Court in like manner
and to as full an extent as by such High
Court.
(2) Without restricting the generality of
subsection (1) of this section, and subject to
subsection (3) of this section, section 22 of the
Supreme Court of Judicature (Consolidation)
Act, 1925, of the Parliament of the United
Kingdom, which is the schedule to this Act.
shall, in so far as it can, apply to and be
applied by the Court, mutatis mutandis, as if
that section of that Act had been by this Act
re-enacted, with the word "Canada" substitut
ed for the word "England", the words
"Governor in Council" substituted for "His
Majesty in Council", the words "Canada
Shipping Act" (with the proper references to
years of enactment and sections) substituted,
except with relation to mortgages, for the
words Merchant Shipping Act" (and any
equivalent references to years of enactment
and sections) and with the words "or other
judicial district" added to the words "body of
a county", wherever in section 22 of the
Supreme Court of Judicature (Consolidation)
Act. 1925. any of the indicated words of that
Act appear.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Act
or in the Act mentioned in subsection (2), the
Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine
  * (_a_) any claim
  * (_i_) arising out of an agreement relating
to the use or hire of a ship,
  * (_ii_) relating to the carriage of goods in a
ship, or
tion.
(4) Xo action in rem in respect of any claim
mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) is within the
jurisdiction of the Court unless it is shown to
the Court that at the time of the institution
of the proceedings no owner or part owner of
the ship was domiciled in Canada.
(5) The jurisdiction of the Court over claims
for services in the nature of salvage includes
jurisdiction in rem and in personam in relation
to salvage of life or property of, from or by
aircraft on or over the sea or any tidal waters
and on or over the Great Lakes of North
America, so called, and such jurisdiction shall
be exercised and applied in the same manner,
to the same extent and with the same effect
as if such aircraft were ships ; but the Governor
in Council may by order in council make
modifications of and exemptions from the
provisions of this subsection to such extent as
appears to him necessary or expedient.
(6) The Court on its Admiralty side has
and shall exercise such other jurisdiction and
execute such power and authority, in or
relating to admiralty matters, as
  * (_a_) heretofore have been conferred upon it
by am- Act of the Parliament of Canada,
or
(6) hereafter may be conferred upon it, at
the request and with the consent of Canada,
by any Act of the Parliament of the United
Kingdom or of any Commonwealth country,
enacted in execution of any agreement for
reciprocal legislation with relation to Admi
ralty jurisdiction or to shipping and
navigation made or to be made and
including Canada as a party thereto.
(7) The jurisdiction of the Court on its
Admiralty side shall, so far as regards
procedure and practice, be exercised in the
manner provided by this Act or by general
rules and orders, and where no special
provision is contained in this Act or in general
rules and orders with reference thereto any
such jurisdiction shall be exercised as nearly
as may be in the same manner as that in
which it may now be exercised by the Court.
R.S., c. l,s. 18.

## PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

**19.** (1) The following provisions have
effect in relation to the exercise by the
Exchequer Court of the Admiralty jurisdiction
of the Court :
  * (_a_) if in any claim for salvage services the
plaintiff does not recover more than one
hundred dollars, he is not entitled to recover
any costs of the proceedings unless it is
certified by the Court that the case was a
fit one to be tried otherwise than summarily
in manner provided by the Canada Shipping
Act;
  * (_b_) if in any claim arising out of an
agreement relating to the use or hire of a
ship, or any claim relating to the carriage
of goods in a ship, or any claim in tort in
respect of goods carried in a ship, the
plaintiff recovers a less amount than one
hundred dollars, he is not entitled to any
costs of the proceedings unless it is certified
by the Court that there was sufficient
reason for bringing the proceedings in the
Exchequer Court ;
  * (_c_) in any matter concerning booty of war
the procedure of the Court shall be the
same as in cases of prize ;
  * (_d_) disputes relating to salvage may be
determined on the application either of the
salvor or of the owner of the property saved,
or of their respective agents.
(2) Subject to subsections 18(3) and (4) and
20(1), the Admiralty jurisdiction of the
Exchequer Court may be exercised either in
proceedings in rem or in proceedings in
personam. R.S., c. 1, s. 19.

**20.** (1) An action may be instituted in any
registry when
  * (_a_) the ship or property, the subject of the
action, is at the time of the institution of
the action within the district or division of
such registry ;
(6) the owner or owners of the ship or
property, or the owner or owners of the
larger number of shares in the ship, or the
managing owner, or the ship s husband,
reside at the time of the institution of the
action within the district or division of such
registry ;
  * (_c_) the port of registry of the ship is within
the district or division of such registry ;
  * (_d_) the parties so agree by a memorandum
signed by them or their attorneys or agents ;
  * (_e_) the action is in personam and is founded
on any breach or alleged breach within the
district or division of such registry, of any
contract, wherever made, that is one within
the jurisdiction of the Court and, according
to the terms thereof, ought to be performed
within such district or division ; or
  * (_j_) the action is in personam and is in tort
in respect of goods carried on a ship into a
port within the district or division of such
registry.
(2) When an action has been instituted in
any registry, no further action shall be
instituted in respect of the same matter in
any other registry of the Court without the
leave of the judge of the district or division
of such other registry, which leave may be
granted subject to such terms as to costs and
otherwise as he directs. U.S., c. 1, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Where in any district there are
more registries than one, all proceedings in
any action shall be carried on in the registry
in which the action is instituted, unless the
judge of the district or division of that registry
otherwise orders.
(2) Any party to an action may, at any
stage of the action by leave of the judge of
the district or division of the registry in which
the action is pending, and subject to such
terms as to costs or otherwise as such judge
directs, remove the actioa to any other
registry. R.S., c. 1, s. 21.

**22.** The Court may, on the application of
the defendant in any action for damage and
on his instituting a cross action or counterclaim
for the damage sustained by him in respect
of the same collision, direct that the principal
action and the cross action or counterclaim be
heard at the same time and upon the same
evidence ; and if in the principal action the
ship of the defendant has been arrested or
given by him to answer judgment,
in the cross action or counterclaim the
of the plaintiff cannot be arrested and
has not been given to answer
therein, the Court may, if it thinks
fit, suspend the proceedings in the principal
action until security has been given to answer
judgment in the cross action or counterclaim.
R.S..C. l,s.22.

**23.** By direction of the Court the testimony
/ . i . i j
of any witness may be taken down in
shorthand by a stenographer who shall be
previously sworn faithfully to take down and
transcribe the testimony ; and the Court may
make such order for the payment of the costs
thereby incurred as is just. R.S., c. 1, s. 23.

**24.** All decrees and orders of the Court,
whereby any sums of money or any costs,
charges or expenses are payable to any person,
have the same effect as judgments in the
superior court of the province in which any
decree or order is to be executed, and the
persons to whom any such moneys or costs,
charges or expenses are payable, shall be
deemed judgment creditors ; and all powers
of enforcing judgments by such superior court
or any judge thereof, as well against the ships
and goods arrested as against the person of
the judgment debtor, are possessed by the
Exchequer Court with respect to matters
therein on its Admiraltj- side depending; and
all remedies at law possessed by judgment
creditors are in like manner possessed by
persons to whom any moneys, costs, charges
or expenses are by such order or decree of the
Exchequer Court directed to be paid. R.S., c.
1, s. 24.

**25.** (1) Where a claim is made to any goods
or chattels taken in execution under any
process of the Court, or in respect of the
seizure thereof, or any act or matter connected
therewith, or in respect of the proceeds or
value of any such goods or chattels, by any
landlord for rent, or by any person not being
the party against whom the process has issued,
the Registrar of the Court may, upon
issue a summons calling before the said Court,
both the party issuing such process and the
party making the claim, and thereupon any
action that was brought in any superior court
or in any county or inferior court, in respect
of such claim, seizure, act or matter as
aforesaid, shall be stayed, and the court in
which such action was brought, or any judge
thereof, on proof of the issue of such summons,
and that the goods and chattels were so taken
in execution, may order the party bringing
the action to pay the costs of all proceedings
had upon the action after issue of the
summons out of the Court, and the judge of
the Exchequer Court or district judge, as the
case may be, shall adjudicate upon the claim,
and make such order between the parties in
respect thereof and of the costs of the
proceedings, as to him seems fit, and such
order shall be enforced in like manner as any
order made in any suit brought in the said
Court.
(2) Where any claim is made as described
in subsection (1), the claimant may deposit
with the officer charged with the execution of
the process either the amount or value of the
goods claimed, the value to be fixed by
appraisement in the case of dispute, to be by
the officer paid into Court to abide the
decision of such judge of the Exchequer Court
or district judge upon the claim, or the sum
which the officer shall be allowed to charge
as costs for keeping possession of the goods
until such decision can be obtained, and in
default of the claimant so doing, the officer
may sell the goods as if no such claim had
been made, and shall pay into the Court the
proceeds of the sale, to abide the decision of
such judge. R.S., c. 1, s. 25.

**26.** (1) In any action in the Court bail
may be taken to answer the judgment as well
of the Court as of any court of appeal and
the Court may withhold the release of any
property under its arrest until such bail is
given ; and in any appeal from any decree or
order of the Court the appeal court may make
and enforce its order against the surety who
may have signed any such bail bond in the
same manner as if the bail had been given in
the court of appeal.
(2) In this section the expression "property"
&amp;lt; ,,
includeg ghip R g c A s 2 g

**27.** Where it is desired to issue a writ of
execution in any province other than the
province constituting the Admiralty district
in which the action is tried, or the decree or
judgment entered, a certified copy of such
decree or judgment may be filed in the central
registry of the Exchequer Court at Ottawa
and a writ of execution may be issued by the
Registrar at Ottawa in accordance with the
provisions with respect to executions of the
Exchequer Court Act. R.S., c. 1, s. 27.

**28.** All persons authorized to administer
affidavits to be used in any of the superior
courts of any province may administer oaths,
affidavits and affirmations in such province
to be used in the Court. R.S., c. 1, s. 28.

**29.** (1) All persons authorized to adminis-
ter oaths, affidavits or affirmations by the
Exchequer Court Act may administer them in
the Court on its Admiralty side, and all the
provisions of that Act with respect to oaths,
affidavits, affirmations or declarations are
applicable.
(2) A registrar for any Admiralty district or
for any registry division of any district has
power to administer oaths in relation to any
action, cause or matter depending in the
Court. R.S., c. 1, s. 29.

**30.** (1) In any cause or matter the Court
may, if it thinks expedient so to do, call in
the aid of one or more assessors specially
rules and orders
  * (_a_) for regulating the practice and procedure
in causes or matters falling within the
Admiralty jurisdiction of the Court, or a
judge thereof, either at first instance or on
appeal, including, without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, the service of a
writ of summons or other process out of the
jurisdiction of the Court or out of the
territorial jurisdiction of any district judge ;
(6) for regulating the practice and procedure
in any proceedings or in any cause or
matter falling within the jurisdiction of the
Court on its Admiralty side under any Act
of the Parliament of Canada, either at first
instance or on appeal ;
  * (_c_) for fixing the scale of costs, charges and
fees in Admiralty causes and regulating the
taxation thereof where costs are awarded
for or against a party in any of such causes
or matters ;
  * (_d_) for the appointment of deputy registrars
and deputy marshals, and such other officers
and clerks as may be necessary ;
  * (_e_) for fixing the fees payable to the Court
or its officers in respect of anything done
or any proceedings taken in such causes or
matters;
  * (_f_) for prescribing the powers and duties of
registrars and marshals and their deputies,
and the powers and duties of other officers
of the Court ; and
  * (_g_) for regulating any matters that are by
this Act required to be prescribed by general
rules and orders.
(2) Rules and orders made under this
section may extend to any matter of procedure
or practice that is not provided for by any
Act relating to the jurisdiction of the Court
but concerning which matter it is, in the
opinion of such President and puisne judges,
necessary or expedient to provide by way of
rules and orders so that such Act may more
efficiently operate and its objects be better
attained.
(3) Rules and orders made under this
do not become effective until approved
the Governor in Council, nor until the
and orders and the order in council
them are published in the Canada
Gazette.
(4) Copies of all rules and orders made
under this section shall be laid before both
Houses of Parliament within ten days after
the opening of the session next after the
making thereof, and at any time within thirty
days after they have been laid before
Parliament they or any of them may, by joint
resolution of both Houses of Parliament, be
suspended or repealed, in which event during
suspension or after repeal no suspended or
repealed rule or order has any force or effect.
R.S.,c. l,s. 31.

## APPEALS

**32.** (1) An appeal from any final judgment
of any district judge in Admiralty may be
made
  * (_a_) to the Exchequer Court, or
(6) subject to the provisions of the Exchequer
Court Act regarding appeals, directly to the
Supreme Court of Canada.
(2) On security for costs being first given,
and subject to such provisions as are prescribed
by general rules and orders, an appeal, with
the leave of a judge of the Exchequer Court
or any district judge, may be made to the
Exchequer Court from any interlocutory
decree or order of such district judge. R.S., c.
l,s.32.

**33.** An appeal from the decision of a judge
of the Exchequer Court or of that Court
sitting in appeal, may be made to the Supreme
Court of Canada in accordance with the
provisions of the Exchequer Court Act regard
ing appeals. R.S., c. 1, s. 33.
  * (_a_) Jurisdiction to hear and determine any of the following
questions or claims :
  * (_i_) Any question as to the title to or ownership of a ship, or
the proceeds of sale of a ship remaining in the admiralty
registry, arising in an action of possession, salvage, damage,
necessaries, wages or bottomry ;
  * (_ii_) Any question arising between co-owners of a ship
registered at any port in England as to the ownership,
possession, employment or earnings of that ship, or any
share thereof, with power to settle any account outstand
ing and unsettled between the parties in relation thereto,
and to direct the ship, or any share thereof, to be sold, or
to make such order as the Court thinks fit ;
  * (_iii_) Any claim for damage received by a ship, whether re
ceived within the body of a county or on the high seas;
  * (_iv_) Any claim for damage done by a ship;
  * (_v_) Subject to the provisions of section five hundred and
forty-seven of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, with
respect to the summary determination of salvage disputes,
any claim in the nature of salvage for services rendered to
a ship (including, subject to the provisions of the said Act,
services rendered in saving life from a ship), whether
rendered on the high seas or within the body of a county,
or partly on the high seas and partly within the body of a
county, and whether the wreck in respect of which the
salvage is claimed is found on the sea or on the land, or
partly on the sea and partly on the land ;
  * (_vi_) Any claim in the nature of towage, whether the
services were rendered within the body of a county or on
the high seas ;
  * (_vii_) Any claim for necessaries supplied to a foreign ship,
whether within the body of a county or on the high seas.
and, unless it is shown to the Court that at the time of the
institution of the proceedings any owner or part owner of
the ship was domiciled in England, any claim for any
necessaries supplied to a ship elsewhere than in the port to
which the ship belongs ;
  * (_viii_) Any claim by a seaman of a ship for wages earned by
him on board the ship, whether due under a special con
tract or otherwise, and any claim by the master of a ship
for wages earned by him on board the ship and for dis
bursements made by him on account of the ship;
  * (_ix_) Any claim in respect of a mortgage of any ship, being
a mortgage duly registered in accordance with the pro
visions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1923, or in
respect of any mortgage of a ship which is, or the proceeds
whereof are, under the arrest of the Court ;
  * (_x_) Any claim for building, equipping or repairing a ship,
if at the time of the institution of the proceedings the ship
is, or the proceeds thereof are, under the arrest of the
Court;
  * (_xi_) Any matter concerning booty of war, or the distribu
tion thereof, which may be referred to the Court by His
Majesty in Council;
  * (_xii_) Any claim
(1) arising out of an agreement relating to the use or
hire of a ship; or
(2) relating to the carriage of goods in a ship; or
(3) in tort in respect of goods carried in a ship;
unless it is shown to the Court that at the time of the in
stitution of the proceedings any owner or part owner of the
ship was domiciled in England;
  * (_b_) Any other jurisdiction formerly vested in the High Court
of Admiralty;
  * (_c_) All admiralty jurisdiction which, under or by virtue of
any enactment which came into force after the commence
ment of the Act of 1873 and is not repealed by this Act, was
immediately before the commencement of this Act vested in
or capable of being exercised by the High Court constituted
by the Act of 1873.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this
section which confer on the High Court admiralty jurisdiction
in respect of claims for damage shall be construed as extending
to claims for loss of life or personal injuries.
(3) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the
expression "ship" includes any description of vessel used in
navigation not propelled by oars.
R.S., c. 1, Sch. A.
