
# CHAPTER A- 10
Act respecting the Department of Agricul-
ture
i. This Act may be cited as the Department
of Agriculture Act. R.S., c. 66, s. 1.

**2.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Agriculture over which the Minister of
Agriculture appointed by commission under
the Great Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
direction of the Department and holds office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 66, s. 2.

**3.** The Governor in Council may appoint
an officer called the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture to hold office during pleasure.
R.S., c. 66, s. 3.

**4.** The duties and powers of the Minister
of Agriculture extend to the execution of laws
enacted by the Parliament of Canada and of
orders of the Governor in Council relating to
the subjects enumerated in section 5, as well
as to the direction of all public bodies, officers
and servants employed in the execution of
such laws and orders. R.S., c. 66, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The following subjects are under the
control and direction of the Minister of
Agriculture :
  * (_a_) agriculture;
  * (_b_) arts and manufactures;
  * (_c_) experimental farm stations.
(2) The Governor in Council may at any
time assign any other duty or power to the
Minister of Agriculture. R.S., c. 66, s. 5.

**5.** The Minister of Agriculture shall make
and submit to the Governor General an
annual report of the proceedings of his
Department, to be laid before both Houses of
Parliament within twenty-one days from the
commencement of the session. R.S., c. 66, s. 6.
