
# CHAPTER A- 11
An Act to incorporate Air Canada. 1964-65,
c. 2,s. 1.

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Air Canada
Act. R.S., c. 268, s. 1 ; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Air Canada contract" means the contract
authorized by section 14;
"Air Canada Lines" has the meaning set forth
in section 14;
"aircraft" means airships designed to be
lighter than air and flying machines
designed to be heavier than air and, in
either case, having means of traction or
propulsion ;
"Corporation" means Air Canada;
"director" means a member of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport.
R.S., c. 268, s. 2; 1952-53, c. 50, s. 10; 1964-
65, c. 2, s. 1.

## CONSTITUTION OF THE CORPORATION

**3.** The following persons, namely, Valen
tine Irving Smart, Robert Knowlton Smith,
Charles Peter Edwards, Edward Burton Jost
and Findlay Malcolm Maclennan all of the
city of Ottawa together with such persons as
become shareholders of the Corporation are
hereby incorporated under the name of "Air
Canada". R.S., c. 268, s. 3; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

**4.** The head office of the Corporation shall
be in the city of Ottawa or such other city as
the directors may select. R.S., c. 268, s. 4.

## MANAGEMENT

**5.** (1) The Corporation shall be under the
management of a Board of Directors composed
of nine persons, elected and appointed as
hereinafter provided.
(2) It is not necessary that a director be a
shareholder of the Corporation, but no person
shall be elected or appointed as a director or
shall continue to hold office as such who is
not a British subject who has been contin
uously resident in Canada for not less than
five years prior to the date of his election or
appointment.
(3) Five directors shall be elected by the
shareholders of the Corporation and four
directors shall be appointed by the Governor
in Council. R.S., c. 268, s. 5; 1952-53, c. 50,
s. 11.

## CAPITAL STOCK

**6.** (1) The authorized capital of the Cor
poration shall be twenty-five million dollars
divided into shares of one hundred dollars
each, represented by share certificates.
(2) The shares of the capital stock of the
Corporation shall be offered for subscription
to the Canadian National Railway Company
at par.
(3) Subject to section 10, the Canadian
National Railway Company may subscribe
for, underwrite, purchase, hold and, with the
approval of Parliament, sell and dispose of
the shares of the capital stock of the
Corporation. R.S., c. 268, s. 6; 1952-53, c. 50,
s. 12.

**7.** The directors of the Corporation may
call for and demand from the shareholders
thereof respectively all sums of money by
them subscribed at such times and places and
in such payments or instalments as the
directors in their discretion by resolution
decide. R.S., c. 268, s. 7.

**8.** No property or services shall be received
or accepted in payment of shares or of any
of the Minister, such property or
have a value equivalent to the total
nominal amount of the shares or of the call
made in respect of the shares, as the case may
be, and if any property or services are received
or accepted by the directors otherwise than in
accordance with the terms of this section the
directors are jointly and severally liable to
pay to the Corporation the total nominal
amount of the shares or of the call, as the
case may be. R.S., c. 268, s. 8.

**9.** No shares shall be held by any person
other than a British subject resident in
Canada or a corporation incorporated under
the laws of Canada or of any province and
controlled by British subjects ordinarily
resident in Canada, and if any shares are
held by any person or corporation not
authorized by this section to hold shares the
same may be forfeited to Her Majesty by
order of the Exchequer Court of Canada on
the application of the Minister. R.S., c. 268,
s. 10.

**10.** (1) The Minister, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, is entitled at any
time to acquire from the shareholders all of
the shares of the capital stock of the
Corporation on payment to the shareholders
of the book value thereof, and the Governor
in Council may by order vest those shares in
the Minister.
(2) The book value of the shares shall, in
the event of disagreement, be determined by
a reference by the Minister to the Exchequer
Court of Canada.
(3) The Air Canada contract shall not be
deemed to have any value or to be an asset
to be taken into consideration in determining
the book value of the shares.
(4) T ne shares shall, upon acquisition by
the Minister, be held in trust for Her Majesty.
R.S., c. 268, s. 11; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

## ISSUE OF SECURITIES BY CANADIAN NATIONAL

## RAILWAY COMPANY

**11.** (1) Subject to this Act, the Canadian
Railway Company may issue notes,
bonds and other securities (in this
called "securities") not exceeding the
of twenty-five million dollars for the
purpose of acquiring the capital stock of the
Corporation, and the Governor in Council
may authorize the guarantee of the principal
and interest of such securities on behalf of
Her Majesty.
(2) The Governor in Council may, subject
to this Act, approve or decide
  * (_a_) the kind of securities to be issued and
guaranteed, and the form and terms thereof ;
(6) the form and manner of the guarantee
or guarantees ;
  * (_c_) the time, manner and amount of the
issue or issues ;
  * (_d_) the terms and conditions of any sale,
pledge or other disposition of the securities ;
and
  * (_e_) the securing, if deemed desirable by the
Governor in Council, of the securities by
mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument,
and the form and terms of any such
instrument and the trustee or trustees
thereof.
(3) The guarantee or guarantees may be
signed on behalf of Her Majesty by the
Minister of Finance or by such other person
as the Governor in Council may from time to
time designate, and such signature is conclu
sive evidence for all purposes of the validity
of such guarantee and that this Act has been
complied with.
(4) To enable the Canadian National
Railway Company to proceed forthwith to
acquire the capital stock of the Corporation,
the Governor in Council, pending the issue,
sale, pledge or other disposition of the
aforesaid securities, may authorize advances
to be made to the Company from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, such advances
to be reimbursed to Her Majesty by the
Company from the proceeds of the sale,
pledge or other disposition of such securities.
R.S., c. 268, s. 12.

## AUDIT

**13.** (1) The Corporation is authorized
  * (_a_) to establish, operate and maintain air
lines or regular services of aircraft of all
kinds, to carry on the business of transport
ing mails, passengers and goods by air, and
to enter into contracts for the transport of
mails, passengers and goods by any means,
and either by the Corporation s own aircraft
and conveyances or by means of the aircraft
and conveyances of others, and to enter
into contracts with any person or company
for the interchange of traffic and, in
connection with any of the objects aforesaid,
to carry on the business of warehousing
goods, wares and merchandise of every kind
and description whatever;
(6) to buy, sell, lease, erect, construct and
acquire hangars, aerodromes, seaplane
bases, landing fields and beacons and to
maintain and operate the same ;
  * (_c_) to borrow money for any of the purposes
of the Corporation and, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, to borrow
money for capital expenditures from time
to time from the Canadian National
Railway Company ;
  * (_d_) to carry on its business throughout
Canada and outside of Canada ;
  * (_e_) to purchase, hold and, subject to this
Act, sell and dispose of shares in any
company incorporated under section 18 or
in any company or corporation incorporated
for the operation and maintenance of air
lines or services of aircraft of any kind ;
(/) to lend money to any corporation
incorporated under section 18 on such
security as the Minister may determine ;
  * (_g_) to deposit money with or lend money
to the Canadian National Railway Compa
ny at such rate of interest as may be agreed
upon between the Corporation and the
Canadian National Railway Company ;
  * (_h_) to issue such bonds, notes or other
securities of the Corporation as are necessary
to carry out the provisions of this Act ;
  * (_i_) to buy, sell, lease and operate motor
vices and the air services of other air carriers
and to enter into contracts with any other
person respecting the provision of motor
vehicle services of all kinds ;
  * (_j_) to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire
or provide, hold, use, enjoy and operate
such hotels in Canada as are deemed
expedient for the purposes of the Corpora
tion; and
  * (_k_) to use the words "Air Canada", "Trans-
Canada Air Lines", "Lignes aeriennes
Trans-Canada", or any abbreviation there
of, as a trade name, mark or designation
for any purpose connected with the business
of the Corporation, and no other person
shall hereafter use any such name, mark or
designation for any purpose.
(2) The Corporation shall not sell or dispose
of any of the outstanding shares of any
company incorporated under section 18 except
with the approval of Parliament.
(3) Subject to section 37 of the Canadian
National Railways Act, the Canadian National
Railway Company may lend money to the
Corporation upon such terms and conditions
and at such rate of interest as may be agreed
upon between the Corporation and the
Canadian National Railway Company. R.S.,
c. 268, s. 14; 1952-53, c. 50, s. 15; 1964-65, c. 2,
s. 3.

## AIR CANADA LINES

**14.** (1) The Governor in Council may
authorize the Minister to enter into a contract
with the Corporation (to be known as the Air
Canada contract) for the organization, opera
tion and maintenance by the Corporation of
lines of aircraft (to be known as the Air
Canada Lines) for the speedy and efficient
transport of passengers, and goods across
Canada and between and within the several
provinces thereof, and between points in
Canada and points outside of Canada, over
wholly within or partly within and
partly outside of Canada.
(2) The Air Canada contract shall contain
  * (_a_) for the operation of the aforesaid lines
of aircraft between points and over routes
to be designated from time to time while
the contract is in force by the Governor in
Council ;
(6) for the transport of passengers and
goods by the Corporation at tariff charges
on a competitive basis with other similar
transportation services in North America ;
  * (_c_) for the furnishing by the Corporation of
all adequate, modern aviation equipment,
two-way telephone service, hangars and
other buildings and, except as hereinafter
otherwise provided, all other equipment,
services and materials necessary for the
operation of an efficient service by means
of the aforesaid Air Canada Lines sufficient
to take care of all mail, passengers, express
and other traffic offered to the Corporation
for transport ;
  * (_d_) for the operation and maintenance by
the Government of Canada, without charge
to the Corporation, of emergency landing
fields, lights and radio beams, necessary for
the operation of the said Air Canada Lines
and for the supply to the Corporation free
of charge of weather reports ; but when the
revenues of the Corporation, in the opinion
of the Minister, will permit, charges may
be imposed for landing, lighting and
weather reports such as are charged for
other similar competing coast-to-coast ser
vices in North America ; and
  * (_e_) for the term of the contract, but the
same shall not be less than ten years.
(3) The Air Canada contract is not assign
able except with the approval of the Governor
in Council.
(4) The Governor in Council may from
time to time authorize the Minister to enter
a contract amending the Air Canada
and containing such terms as the
in Council may order. R.S., c. 268,
15; 1952-53, c. 50, s. 16; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

## AIR CANADA MAIL CONTRACT

**15.** (1) The Governor in Council may
authorize the Postmaster General to enter
into a contract with the Corporation for the
transport of mails by means of the Air Canada
Lines.
(2) A contract made under subsection (1)
shall contain such terms as the Governor in
Council may order.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the Post
Office Act, such contract shall be conterminous
with the Air Canada contract.
(4) The Governor in Council may from
time to time authorize the Postmaster General
to enter into a contract amending a contract
made under subsection (1) and containing
such terms as the Governor in Council may
order. R.S., c. 268, s. 16; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

## GENERAL

**16.** Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to
relieve the Corporation or its servants from
any duty or obligation under any other
statute, regulation, or law, not inconsistent
with this Act, relating to the ownership or
operation of aircraft or to the transport of
passengers and goods by means of aircraft.
R.S., c. 268, s. 17.
1? (1) The P r0visi nS f Part IV f the
Canada Corporations Act, except sections 161,
174, 175, 179, 196 and 197, in so far as the said
provisions are not inconsistent with this Act,
apply to the Corporation, and this Act shall
for the purposes of Part IV of the Canada
Corporations Act, be deemed to be a special
Act and the Corporation shall be deemed to
be a company for the purposes of that Part.
(2) The fiscal year of the Corporation is
the calendar year. R.S., c. 268, s. 18.
SUBSIDIARIES

**18.** The Governor in Council may on the
petition of the Corporation declare that any
number of persons named in the petition, not
exceeding nine in number, shall be a body
corporate and upon such declaration being
made those persons are a body corporate and
politic. 1952-53, c. 50, s. 17.

**19.** Whenever the Governor in Council
any persons to be a body corporate
under section 18 he shall at the same time
name the corporation and fix its authorized
capital and the par value of the shares. R.S.,
c. 268, s. 20.

**20.** The persons named in any declaration
under section 18 shall be the provisional
directors of the corporation. R.S., c. 268, s. 21.
2 1. The head office of the corporation
shall be at such city as the directors may
select. R.S., c. 268, s. 22.

**22.** The shares of any company incorporat
ed under section 18 shall be offered for
subscription to Air Canada at par. R.S., c.
268,8.23; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

**23.** (1) The Governor in Council may
authorize the Minister to enter into a contract
with any corporation incorporated under
section 18, for the organization, operation and
maintenance of air services designated from
time to time by the Governor in Council.
(2) A contract entered into under subsection
(1) shall contain such terms as the Governor
in Council may order, including terms for
payment of a subsidy to the corporation,
which subsidy is payable out of moneys to be
appropriated by Parliament for that purpose.
(3) The Governor in Council may from
time to time authorize the Minister to enter
into a contract amending a contract made
under subsection (1) and containing such
terms as the Governor in Council may order.
R.S., c. 268, s. 24.

**24.** (1) The Governor in Council may
authorize the Postmaster General to enter
into a contract with any corporation incor
porated under section 18 for the transport of
mails.
(2) The Governor in Council may from
time to time authorize the Postmaster General
to enter into a contract amending a contract
under subsection (1) and containing
terms as the Governor in Council may
order. R.S., c. 268, s. 25.
to Air Canada, except sections 3, 4, 6, 11, 14
and 15, apply mutatis mutandis to every
corporation incorporated under section 18.
R.S., c. 268, s. 26; 1964-65, c. 2, s. 1.

**26.** Every order in council made under this
Act shall be laid before Parliament as soon as
may be after it is made. R.S., c. 268, s. 27.

**27.** The Board of Directors shall make a
report annually to Parliament setting forth
in a summary manner the results of their
operations and such other information as
appears to them to be of public interest or
necessary for the information of Parliament
with relation to any situation existing at the
time of such report, or as may be required
from time to time by the Governor in Council.
R.S., c. 268, s. 28.

**28.** The annual reports of the Board of
Directors and the auditor, respectively, shall
be submitted to Parliament through the
Minister. R.S., c. 268, s. 29.
