
# CHAPTER A- 12
An Act respecting the importation and
employment of aliens
I. This Act may be cited as the Alien
Labour Act. R.S., c. 7, s. 1.

**2.** It is unlawful for any person, company,
partnership or corporation, in any manner to
prepay the transportation or in any way to
assist, encourage or solicit the importation or
immigration of any alien or foreigner into
Canada, under contract or agreement, parole
or special, express or implied, made previous
to the importation or immigration of such
alien or foreigner, to perform labour or service
of any kind in Canada. R.S., c. 7, s. 2.

**3.** p or every violation of any of the
provisions of section 2, the person, partnership,
company or corporation violating it by
knowingly assisting, encouraging or soliciting
the immigration or importation of any alien
or foreigner into Canada to perform labour
or service of any kind under contract or
agreement, expressed or implied, parole or
special, with such alien or foreigner, previous
to such alien or foreigner becoming a resident
in or a citizen of Canada, shall forfeit and
pay a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars,
and not less than fifty dollars. R.S., c. 7, s. 3.

**4.** The sum so forfeited may, with the
written consent of any judge of the court in
which the action is intended to be brought,
be sued for and recovered as a debt by any
person who first brings his action therefor in
any court of competent jurisdiction in which
debts of like amount are now recovered. R.S.,
7, S. 4.

**5.** Such sum may also, with the written
consent, to be obtained ex parte, of the
attorney general of the province in which the
prosecution is had, or of a judge of a superior
or county court of such province, be recovered
upon summary conviction before any judge
of a county court, being a justice of the peace,
or any judge of the sessions of the peace,
recorder, police magistrate or stipendiary
magistrate, or any functionary, tribunal or
person invested by the proper legislative
authority with power to do alone such acts as
are usually required to be done by two or
more justices of the peace, and, when
recovered, shall be paid to the Receiver
General. R.S., c. 7, s. 5; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**6.** Separate proceedings may be instituted
for each alien or foreigner who is a party to
such contract or agreement. R.S., c. 7, s. 6.

**7.** All contracts or agreements, express or
implied, parole or special, made by and
between any person, company, partnership or
corporation and any alien or foreigner, to
perform labour or service, or having reference
to the performance of labour or service by
any person in Canada, previous to the
immigration or importation into Canada of
the person whose labour or service is contracted
for, are void and of no effect. R.S., c. 7, s. 7.

**8.** The master of any vessel who knowingly
brings into Canada on such vessel and lands
or permits to be landed, from any foreign
port or place, any alien, labourer, mechanic
or artisan who, previous to embarkation on
such vessel, had entered into contract or
agreement, parole or special, express or
implied, to perform labour or service in
Canada, shall be deemed guilty of an
indictable offence and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars for each alien, labourer,
mechanic or artisan so brought or landed, and
may also be imprisoned for a term not
exceeding six months. R.S., c. 7, s. 8.

**9.** Nothing in this Act shall be so construed
as
  * (_a_) to prevent any citizen or subject of any
foreign country, temporarily residing in
Canada either in private or official capacity,
from engaging, under contract or otherwise,
persons not residents or citizens of Canada,
to act as private secretaries, servants or
domestics for such foreigner temporarily
residing in Canada,
(6) to prevent any person, partnership,
company or corporation from engaging
under contract or agreement, skilled work
men in foreign countries to perform labour
in Canada in or upon any new industry not
at present established in Canada if skilled
labour for that purpose cannot be otherwise
obtained,
  * (_c_) applying to professional actors, artists,
lecturers or singers, or to persons employed
strictly as personal or domestic servants, or
  * (_d_) prohibiting any person from assisting
any member of his family, or any relative,
to migrate from any foreign country to
Canada for the purpose of settlement in
Canada. R.S., c. 7, s. 9.

**10.** The Attorney General of Canada,
when he is satisfied that an immigrant has
been allowed to land in Canada contrary to
the prohibition of this Act, may cause such
immigrant, within the period of one year
after landing or entry, to be taken into
custody and returned to the country whence
he came, at the expense of the owner of the
importing vessel, or, if he entered from an
adjoining country at the expense of the
person, partnership, company or corporation
assisting, encouraging or soliciting the impor
tation or immigration of such immigrant
under contract contrary to this Act. R.S., c. 7,
s. 10.

**11.** The Minister of Finance may pay to
any informer who furnishes original informa
tion that the law has been violated such share
not exceeding fifty per cent of the penalties
recovered as he deems reasonable and just,
where it appears that the recovery was had in
consequence of the information thus fur
nished. R.S., c. 7, s. 11.

**12.** (1) It shall be deemed a violation of
this Act for any person, partnership, company
or corporation to assist or encourage the
importation or immigration of any person
who resides in, or is a citizen of any foreign
country to which this Act applies, by promise
of employment through advertisements print
ed or published in such foreign country.
(2) Any such person coming to this country
in consequence of such an advertisement shall
be treated as coming under a contract as
contemplated by this Act, and the penalties
by this Act imposed are applicable in such
case.
(3) This section does not apply to skilled
labour not obtainable in Canada, as herein
before specified. R.S., c. 7, s. 12.

**13.** This Act applies only to the importa
tion or immigration of such persons as reside
in or are citizens of such foreign countries as
have enacted and retained in force, or as
enact and retain in force, laws or ordinances
applying to Canada of a character similar to
this Act. R.S., c. 7, s. 13.

**14.** Evidence of any such law or ordinance
of a foreign country may be given by the
production of a copy thereof purporting to be
  * (_a_) printed by the government printer or at
the government printing office of such
foreign country, or contained in a volume
of laws or ordinances of such country
purporting to be so printed, or
  * (_b_) certified to be true by some officer of
state of such foreign country who also
certifies that he is the custodian of the
original of such law or ordinance, in which
case no proof shall be required of the
handwriting or official position of the
person so certifying. R.S., c. 7, s. 14.

**15.** Nothing in this Act affects the exercise
