
# CHAPTER A- 13
An Act respecting infectious or contagious
diseases affecting animals

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Animal
Contagious Diseases Act. R.S., c. 9, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
contagious" means communicable by close
contact or inoculation ;
foreign animals" means animals not already
introduced into Canadian territory, outside
of quarantine stations ;
infectious" means communicable in any
manner ;
infectious or contagious disease" includes, in
addition to other diseases generally so
designated, glanders, farcy, maladie du
coit, pleuro-pneumonia contagiosa, foot and
mouth disease, rinderpest, anthrax, Texas
fever, hog cholera, swine plague, mange,
scab, rabies, tuberculosis, actinomycosis,
and variola ovina ;
Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture.
R.S., c. 9, s. 2.

## REGULATIONS

**3.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations and orders as to him seem
necessary for any of the following purposes,
that is to say :
  * (_a_) for subjecting animals to quarantine, or
for causing them to be destroyed upon their
arrival in Canada, or for destroying any
hay, straw, fodder or other article whereby
it appears to him that infection or contagion
may be conveyed, and generally for regu
lating the importation or introduction into
Canada of animals in such manner as to
prevent the introduction of any infectious
or contagious disease into Canada ;
(6) for the keeping separate, treatment and
disposal of, and dealing generally with
animals affected with infectious or conta
gious diseases, or suspected of being so
affected, or that have been in contact with
animals so affected or suspected of being so
affected, and for the prevention of the
spread of infectious or contagious diseases ;
  * (_c_) for segregating and confining animals
within certain limits, for establishing dis
tricts of inspection or of quarantine, and
for prohibiting or regulating the removal to
or from such parts of or places in Canada
as he designates in such regulations, of
animals, or of meats, skins, hides, horns,
hoofs or other parts of any animals, or of
hay, straw, fodder or other articles likely to
propagate infection ;
  * (_d_) for purifying any yard, stable, outhouse
or other place, or any wagons, carts,
carriages, cars or other vehicles, or any
vessels, and for directing how any animals
dying in a diseased state, or any animals,
parts of animals, or other things seized
under this Act, are to be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of ;
  * (_e_) for causing notices to be given of the
appearance of any disease among animals ;
(/) for requiring notice of the appearance
of any such disease among animals ;
  * (_gf_) for prohibiting or regulating the holding
of markets, fairs, exhibitions or sales of
animals ;
  * (_h_) for declaring any market, railway yard,
stockyard, pen, wharf, steamship, steam or
other vessel, railway car or other vehicle,
on or in which animals are exposed for sale,
or are placed for the purpose of transit, to
be infected, and for declaring the same to
be no longer infected ;
  * (_i_) for the slaughtering of animals as pro
vided for by this Act ;
  * (_j_) for requiring proof of the fact that
animals imported into or passing through
Canada have not, at the time of their
embarkation, been brought from any place
or locality where any contagious or infec
tious disease is, at that time, in existence;
(/c) for exempting certain contagious and
infectious diseases from the operation of
certain specified clauses of this Act, and for
dealing with those diseases as may to him
seem necessary and advisable ; and
(0 generally, any orders that he thinks it
expedient to make for the better execution
of this Act, or for the purpose of, in any
manner, preventing the spreading of and
for the extirpation of contagious or infec
tious disease among animals, whether any
such orders are of the same kind as the
kinds enumerated in this section or not.
R.S., c. 9, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may, from
time to time, define the limits of ports and of
other circumscriptions for the purposes of this
Act. R.S., c. 9, s. 4.

**5.** The Minister may make such regulations
as to him seem necessary for preventing the
removal, without a licence signed by an
inspector or other officer appointed pursuant
to section 16, of live animals, or the hide,
skin, hair, offal of any animals or any part
thereof, the carcass or any remains of any
animal, any dung of animals, and any hay,
straw, litter or other thing commonly used for
or about animals, out of an infected place.
R.S., c. 9, s. 5.

## EVIDENCE

**6.** An order of the Governor in Council
declaring any market , railway yard, stockyard,
pen, wharf, steamship, steam or other vessel,
railway car or other vehicle to be infected, or
an order of the Minister, declaring a place to
be an infected place, or a copy of the
declaration of the inspector certified by him,
a notice of which has been delivered as
by this Act, is evidence of the
of disease, or of the suspicion of
disease, and other matters to which the
or declaration relates. R.S., c. 9, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Any order or regulation made or
under this Act or under any order of
the Governor in Council or of the Minister,
and any report, declaration, licence, certificate
or other document made by an inspector or
other officer under this Act or under any
order or regulation made under this Act may
be proved by the production of a copy of such
document certified by the Minister.
(2) Any such document shall, until the
contrary is proved, be deemed to have been
duly made and issued at the time at which it
bears date. R.S., c. 9, s. 7.

**8.** The certificate of an inspector or an
officer to the effect that an animal is affected
with an infectious or contagious disease is, for
the purposes of this Act, evidence of the
matter certified. R.S., c. 9, s. 8.

## DUTIES OF OWNERS OF ANIMALS

**9.** (1) Every owner of animals and every
breeder of or dealer in animals, and every
one bringing animals into Canada, shall, on
perceiving the appearance of infectious or
contagious disease among the animals owned
by him or under his special care, give
immediate notice to the Minister and to the
nearest veterinary inspector of the Depart
ment of Agriculture of the facts discovered by
him as aforesaid.
(2) Any veterinary surgeon practising in
Canada shall, immediately on ascertaining
that an animal has an infectious or contagious
disease, give similar notice to the Minister
and to the nearest veterinary inspector. R.S.,
c. 9, s. 9.

**10.** Every owner of animals who neglects
to comply with section 9 shall forfeit his claim
to compensation for any animals slaughtered
in accordance with this Act, and no such
compensation shall be granted to him. R.S.,
c. 9, s. 10.

## SLAUGHTERING DISEASED CATTLE

**11.** The Minister may cause to be slaugh
tered animals suffering from infectious or
disease or suspected of being so
affected, and animals that are or have been
in contact with or close proximity to a
diseased animal, or an animal suspected of
being affected by infectious or contagious
disease. R.S., c. 9, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Minister may order a compen
sation to be paid to the owners of animals
slaughtered under the provisions of this Act.
(2) The compensation ordered to be paid
under this section for an animal slaughtered
under the provisions of this Act shall be the
market value that the animal, in the opinion
of the Minister or some person appointed by
him, would have had immediately before
slaughter if it had not been subject to
slaughter under this Act, except that the
compensation shall not exceed
  * (_a_) in the case of horses, such maximum
amounts as may be prescribed by the
Governor in Council for pure-bred and for
grade animals ; and
(6) in the case of cattle slaughtered pursuant
to any area or herd disease eradication
program instituted pursuant to the regula
tions, such maximum amounts as may be
prescribed by the Governor in Council for
pure-bred and for grade animals, and if the
sale of the carcass is unlawful an additional
amount for pure-bred and grade animals
equal to the value the carcass would have
if the sale were lawful, such value to be
determined by the Minister or by some
person appointed by him for that purpose.
(3) Such compensation may be withheld in
whole or in part whenever the owner or the
person having charge of the animal has, in
the opinion of the Minister, been guilty in
relation to the animal of an offence against
this Act, or whenever the animal being a
foreign animal was in his judgment diseased
at the time of entering Canada. R.S., c. 9, s.
12; 1953-54, c. 12, s. 1; 1958, c. 11, s. \; 1968-
69, c. 24, s. 1.

**13.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the Minister may
  * (_a_) reserve for experimental treatment any
animal ordered to be slaughtered under this
Act, and
(6) authorize any of his officers or persons
employed by him to make post mortem
examinations of animals that have died, or
are supposed to have died, from infectious
or contagious disease, and to dig up
carcasses of such animals for the purpose of
investigation. R.S., c. 9, s. 13.

## APPEAL

**14.** (1) An appeal may be brought to the
Assessor appointed under Part II of the
Pesticide Residue Compensation Act by the
owner of an animal slaughtered under the
provisions of this Act
  * (_a_) where no maximum amount of compen
sation has been prescribed pursuant to
section 12 for that animal, or where a
maximum amount of compensation has
been so prescribed but the compensation
awarded is less than that maximum amount,
on the ground that the amount of compen
sation awarded was unreasonable, or
(6) where no compensation is awarded for
that animal, on the ground that the failure
to award compensation was unreasonable.
(2) Every appeal to the Assessor referred to
in subsection (1) shall be brought within three
months from the date the owner receives
notification of the decision or the compensa
tion that is the subject of the appeal or within
such longer period as the Assessor may in any
case for special reasons allow.
(3) The provisions of Part II of the Pesticide
Residue Compensation Act, with such modifi
cations as circumstances require, apply to
appeals brought under this Act. 1968-69, c. 24,
s. 2.

## PROHIBITION OF IMPORTATION

**15.** The Minister may prohibit the impor
tation or the introduction into Canada, or
any part thereof, or into any particular ports
thereof, of animals, or of flesh, hides, hoofs,
horns or other parts of animals, or of hay,
straw, fodder or other articles, either generally
or from any places named in the order, for
such period as he deems to be necessary for
the purpose of preventing the introduction of
any contagious or infectious disease among
animals into Canada. R.S., c. 9, s. 15.

## OFFICERS AND THEIR DUTIES

**16.** There may be appointed in the manner
authorized by law such inspectors and other
officers as are necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Act. R.S., c. 9, s. 16.

**17.** Inspectors or other officers, on receiving
information of the supposed existence of any
infectious or contagious disease among ani
mals, shall proceed to the place mentioned
with all practicable speed, and execute and
discharge their duties pursuant to the regula
tions made under the authority of this Act
and the instructions received by them. R.S.,
c. 9, s. 17.

**18.** Any inspector or other officer may, at
any time, for the purpose of carrying into
effect any of the provisions of this Act, enter
any place or premises, or any steamship,
vessel or boat, or any carriage, car, truck,
horse-box or other vehicle used for the carriage
of animals, but shall, if required, state in
writing the grounds on which he has so
entered. R.S., c. 9, s. 18.

**19.** (1) Where an animal infected with or
suffering from any infectious or contagious
disease, or suspected of being so affected is
sold, disposed of, or put off, or is exposed or
offered for sale in any place, or is brought or
attempted to be brought for the purpose of
being exposed or offered for sale in any
market, fair or other open or public place
where other animals are commonly exposed
for sale, any clerk or inspector, or other officer
of the fair or market, or any constable or
policeman, or any other person authorized by
the mayor or reeve, or by any justice of the
peace having jurisdiction in the place, or any
person authorized or appointed by the
Minister, may seize the animal, and report
the seizure to the mayor or reeve, or to any
justice of the peace having jurisdiction in the
place.
(2) The mayor, reeve or justice, or the
person authorized or appointed by the
Minister, may, after veterinary examination
and verification, cause the animal, together
any pens, hurdles, troughs, litter, hay,
or other articles which he judges likely
have been infected thereby, to be forthwith
or otherwise disposed of, in such
as he deems proper, or as is directed,
provided by this Act. R.S., c. 9, s. 19.
20, (1) Any inspector or constable may,
without warrant, apprehend any person found
committing an offence against the provisions
of this Act with respect to infected places,
and shall take any person so apprehended
forthwith before a justice of the peace to be
examined and dealt with according to law.
(2) A person so apprehended shall not be
detained in custody without the order of a
justice longer than twenty-four hours. R.S., c.
9, s. 20.
2 1. Any inspector or constable may require
that any animal or thing moved out of an
infected place in violation of this Act be
forthwith taken back within the limits of that
place, and may enforce and execute such
requisition at the expense of the owner of
such animal or thing. R.S., c. 9, s. 21.

## INFECTED PLACES

**22.** When an inspector finds or suspects
infectious or contagious disease of animals to
exist, he shall forthwith make a declaration
thereof under his hand, and shall deliver a
copy of such declaration to the occupier of
the common, field, stable, cowshed or other
premises where the disease is found; and
thereupon the same, with all lands and
buildings contiguous thereto in the same
occupation, shall be deemed to be an infected
place until otherwise determined by the
Minister. R.S., c. 9, s. 22.

**23.** (1) When an inspector makes such a
declaration of the existence or suspected
existence of infectious or contagious disease
of animals, he shall, with all practicable
speed, send a copy thereof to the Minister.
(2) If it appears that an infectious or
contagious disease exists, the Minister may so
determine and declare, and may prescribe the
limits of the infected place.
(3) If it appears that such disease did not
exist, the Minister may so determine and
declare, and thereupon the place, comprised
in the inspector s declaration, or affected
thereby, shall cease to be deemed an infected
R.S., c. 9, s. 23.

**24.** When, under this Act, an inspector
makes a declaration that constitutes a place
an infected place, he may also, if the
circumstances of the case appear to him so to
require, deliver a notice under his hand of
such declaration to the occupiers of all lands
and buildings adjoining thereto, any part
whereof respectively lies within one mile of
the boundaries of the infected place in any
direction ; and thereupon the provisions of
this Act with respect to infected places apply
to and have effect in respect of such lands
and buildings as if they were actually within
the limits of the infected place. R.S., c. 9,
s.24.

**25.** (1) The area of an infected place may,
in all cases of a declaration by the Minister,
include any common, field, stable, cowshed
or other premises in which infectious or
contagious disease has been found to exist,
and such area as to the Minister seems
requisite.
(2) The Minister may by order, extend or
curtail the limits of an infected place beyond
the boundaries of the common, field, stable,
cowshed, farm or premises where infectious or
contagious disease is declared or found to
exist. R.S., c. 9, s. 25.

**26.** The area of an infected place may, in
any case, be described by reference to a map
or plan deposited at some specified place, or
by reference to townships, parishes, farms, or
otherwise. R.S., c. 9, s. 26.

**27.** The Minister may, at any time, upon
the report of an inspector, by order, declare
any place to be free from infectious or
contagious disease ; and thereupon, and from
the time specified in that behalf in the order,
the place shall cease to be deemed an infected
place. R.S., c. 9, s. 27.

**28.** An order of the Minister relative to an
infected place supersedes any order of a local
authority inconsistent with it. R.S., c. 9, s. 28.

**29.** The provisions of this Act with respect
thing is not detained within the infected
place, unless such transport is prohibited.
R.S., c. 9, s. 29.

**30.** When under this Act a place has been
constituted an infected place, no live animal,
nor the flesh, head, hide, skin, hair, wool or
offal of any animal or any part thereof, nor
the carcass nor any remains of any animal,
nor any dung of animals, nor any hay, straw,
litter or other thing commonly used for and
about animals, shall be removed out of the
infected place, without a licence signed by an
inspector, until the place has been released
by order of the Minister. R.S., c. 9, s. 30.

## CLEANSING OF VESSELS, VEHICLES AND

## PREMISES

**31.** (1) Every company and every person
carrying animals for hire to or in Canada
shall thoroughly cleanse and disinfect, in such
manner as the Governor in Council directs,
all steamships, steamers, vessels, boats, pens,
carriages, trucks, horse-boxes and vehicles
used by such company or person for the
carrying of animals.
(2) The Governor in Council may cause
any such steamship, steamer, vessel, boat,
carriage, truck, horse-box or vehicle, to be
detained at such place as to him seems
suitable, until it is so cleansed and disinfected.
R.S., c. 9, s. 31.

**32.** When the company or person using
such steamship, steamer, vessel, boat, carriage,
truck, horse-box or vehicle for the carrying of
animals, fails to cause it to be so cleansed and
disinfected within such time after* being
notified to do so as the Minister directs, the
Minister may cause it to be cleansed and
disinfected at the expense of such company
or person. R.S., c. 9, s. 32.

**33.** All yards, stables, sheds or other prem-
i i i i
lses usec* or
shall be maintained in a clean,
comfortable and sanitary condition, and are
at all times to inspection by inspectors
acting under the authority of the Minister,
who, when they deem such action necessary,
may order the cleansing and disinfection in a
satisfactory manner of the said yards, stables,
sheds or other premises. R.S., c. 9, s. 33.

**34.** In the event of any railway or steamship
company or other person refusing or neglecting
to carry out the orders of the inspector in
regard to such cleansing or disinfection, or in
the event of such company or person
neglecting to maintain its yards, stables, sheds
or other premises for the use of animals, in a
clean, comfortable and sanitary condition,
the inspector may condemn the said premises
as unfit for use ; whereupon the premises shall
not be used for the accommodation of animals
until such time as the orders of the inspector
in regard thereto have been satisfactorily
carried out. R.S., c. 9, s. 34.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**35.** Every person who neglects to give
notice, as required by this Act, of any facts
discovered or perceived by him indicating the
appearance or the existence of infectious or
contagious disease among animals owned by
him or under his special care, or who conceals
the existence of infectious or contagious
disease among animals, shall incur a penalty
not exceeding two hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9,
s. 35.

**36.** Every person who turns out, keeps or
grazes in or upon any forest, wood, moor,
beach, marsh, common, waste land, open field,
roadside, or other undivided or uninclosed
land, any animal, knowing it to be infected
with or suffering from any infectious or
contagious disease, or to have been exposed
to infection or contagion, shall, for every such
offence, incur a penalty not exceeding two
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9, s. 36.

**37.** Every person who brings or attempts
to bring into any market, fair or other place,
any animal known by him to be infected with
or suffering from any infectious or contagious
disease, shall, for every such offence, incur a
attempts to dispose of or put off any animal
infected with or suffering from any infectious
or contagious disease, or the meat, skin, hide,
horns, hoofs or other parts of an animal
infected with or suffering from any infectious
or contagious disease at the time of its death,
whether such person is the owner of the
animal, or of such meat, skin, hide, horns,
hoofs or other parts of such an animal, or not,
shall, for every such offence, incur a penalty
not exceeding two hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9,
s. 38.

**39.** Every person who throws or places, or
causes or suffers" to be thrown or placed, in
any river, stream, canal, navigable or other
water, or in the sea, within ten miles of the
shore, the carcass of an animal that has died
of disease, or that has been slaughtered as
diseased or as suspected of disease, shall, for
every such offence, incur a penalty not
exceeding two hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9,
s. 39.

**40.** Every person who, without lawful
authority or excuse, digs up or causes or
allows to be dug up the buried carcass of an
animal that has died or is suspected of having
died from infectious or contagious disease, or
that has been slaughtered as diseased or as
suspected of disease, shall, for every such
offence, incur a penalty not exceeding two
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9, s. 40.

**41.** Every person who moves, or causes or
allows to be moved, any animal, hide, skin,
hair, wool, horn, hoof, offal, carcass, meat,
dung, hay, straw, litter or other thing in
violation of the provisions of this Act with
respect to infected places, shall, for every such
offence, incur a penalty not exceeding two
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9, s. 41.

**42.** Every person who fails to comply with
the requirements of any order made under
the authority of this Act respecting the
cleansing and disinfecting of steamships,
vessels, boats, pens, carriages, trucks, horse
boxes or vehicles used by such person for the
carriage of animals, shall, for every such
offence, incur a penalty not exceeding two
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 9, s. 42.

**43.** (j) Every person who refuses to admit
an y j ns p ector or O ther officer into any place
or premises or any steamship, vessel or boat,
or any carriage, car, truck, horse-box, or other
vehicle used for the carriage of animals, or
who obstructs or impedes the execution of
any order or regulation made by the Governor
in Council or the Minister under this Act,
shall, for every such offence, incur a penalty
not exceeding one hundred dollars.
(2) The inspector or other officer may
apprehend the offender and take him forth
with before a justice of the peace to be dealt
with according to law.
(3) N O person so apprehended shall be
detained in custody, without the order of a
justice, longer than twenty-four hours. R.S.,
c. 9, s. 43.

**44.** (j) Where animals are imported or
introduced, or attempted to be imported or
introduced into Canada, contrary to any
orci er or regulation made in pursuance of this
Act, the animals shall be forfeited and may
be forthwith destroyed or disposed of, as the
Minister or any person employed by him in
that behalf directs.
(2) Every person who imports or introduces,
or attempts to import or introduce, i any
animal into Canada, contrary to any such
order or regulation, shall incur a penalty not
exceeding two hundred dollars, for every
animal so imported or introduced, or attempt
ed to be imported or introduced by him. R.S.,
c. 9, s. 44.

**45.** When a person having animals in his
possession or keeping within a district wherein
infectious or contagious disease exists, affixes
at the entrance to a building or inclosed place
in which such animals are kept, a notice
forbidding persons to enter into that building
or place without his permission, any person
s. 45.

**46.** Every person who violates any provi
sion of this Act, or of any regulation made
by the Governor in Council or by the Minister
under the authority of this Act, in respect to
which no penalty is hereinbefore provided, is,
for every such offence, liable to a penalty not
exceeding five hundred dollars and not less
than fifty dollars. R.S., c. 9, s. 46.

## PROCEDURE

**47.** Every offence against this Act, or
against any order or regulation of the
Governor in Council, or of the Minister, and
every cause of complaint under this Act, may
be prosecuted and tried either in the place in
which such offence or cause of complaint was
committed or arose, or in any place in which
the person charged or complained against
happens to be. R.S., c. 9, s. 47.

**48.** (1) Every person who conspires with
any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Act or the regulations is guilty of an
offence and
  * (_a_) may be prosecuted under the provisions
of the Criminal Code relating to summary
convictions, and if convicted is liable to a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars and
not less than fifty dollars or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months or to
both fine and imprisonment ; or
(6) may, at the election of the Attorney
General of Canada, be prosecuted upon
indictment and if convicted is liable to a
fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
and not less than five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment, with or without hard labour,
for a term not exceeding five years or to
both fine and imprisonment.
(2) Except where otherwise provided in this
Act all penalties prescribed in this Act or the
regulations are enforceable under the provi
sions of the Criminal Correlating to summary
convictions.
(3) Where an offence against this Act or the
regulations is committed the complaint may
be made or the information may be laid
within two years from the time when the
matter of the complaint or information arose.
R.S., c. 9, s. 48.

## COMING INTO FORCE

**49.** Section 14 of this Act comes into force
on a day to be fixed by proclamation. 1968-
69, c. 24, s. 3.
