
# CHAPTER A- 16
An Act to establish a benevolent fund from
army canteen and other service funds

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Army
Benevolent Fund Act. R.S., c. 10, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Army Benevolent Fund
Board ;
"Fund" means the Army Benevolent Fund;
"Minister" means the Minister of Veterans
Affairs ;
"veteran" means a person who was on active
service in the military forces of Canada
during World War II ;
"World War II" means the war that com
menced in September 1939. R.S., c. 10, s. 2.

**3.** (j) There shall be set up in the Con
solidated Revenue Fund a special account
called the Army Benevolent Fund.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund all
amounts now credited to the following
accounts in the Consolidated Revenue Fund :
  * (_o_) the account known as The Central Trust
Fund of the Army, Navy and Air Force
Canteens and continued pursuant to an
Order of the Governor in Council dated the
18th day of September 1946 (P.C. 68/3910)
less the equities of the Royal Canadian
Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force;
and
(6) the account known as The Canadian
Army Benefit Fund as constituted pursuant
to an Order of the Governor in Council
dated the 27th day of April 1944 (P.O.
75/3088).
(3) There shall be credited to the Fund the
of two hundred and eighty-five thousand
one hundred and sixty-one dollars and fifty-
five cents received in respect of the sale of
"Kitchen By-Products Overseas" and depos
ited to the credit of the Receiver General
pursuant to Regulation 69 of the "Rules for
the Management of Messes and Canteens,
Canadian Army, 1942".
(4) The following shall be paid or trans
ferred to the Receiver General and credited
to the Fund :
  * (_a_) all moneys and securities now held by,
in the name of, or on account of The
President, Regimental Funds Board,
Department of National Defence, including,
without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, all moneys and securities paid or
transferred to him in respect of regimental,
mess, canteen or other unit funds of
Canadian Army active units that have been
disbanded except such moneys as are
required to discharge liabilities chargeable
against such funds and as are required to
repay to units and formations of the
Canadian Army Reserve Force, or units of
the pre-war Permanent Force, loans or gifts
made by them or their non-permanent
active militia counterparts to units or
formations placed on active service ;
(6) all moneys that, under an Order of the
Governor in Council dated the 18th day of
September 1946 (P.C. 68/3910) were required
to be deposited with the Receiver General
by certain auxiliary service organizations
to be held as trust moneys in "The Central
Trust Fund of the Army, Navy and Air
Force Canteens" including, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, all profits
that the Young Men s Christian Association,
the Salvation Army, the Knights of Colum
bus, the Canadian Legion War Services
Inc., and the Young Women s Christian
Association were, by agreement with His
Majesty, required to pay for the benefit of
members and former members of the armed
forces ; except an amount sufficient to
discharge liabilities chargeable against such
profits;
  * (_c_) all moneys and securities that by
military orders, rules or regulations are
required to be paid to the President,
Regimental Funds Board, Department of
National Defence as or in respect of
regimental mess, canteen or other unit
funds upon a Canadian Army active unit
being disbanded ;
  * (_d_) all moneys received from Navy, Army
and Air Force Institutes of the United
Kingdom in respect of the distribution of
profits from their operations during World
War II;
  * (_e_) all moneys received from the Govern
ment of the United Kingdom in respect of
the distribution of profits from the operation
of troop ships canteens during World War
II; and
(J) any money designated by the Governor
in Council for the purpose of this Act as
having been received in respect of the
profits from the operation of army messes
or canteens or other activities, the profits
of which should be used for the purposes of
this Act.
(5) All moneys and securities required by
this section to be paid or transferred to the
Receiver General are hereby declared to be
and to have been the property of Her Majesty
in right of Canada and may be recovered by
action on behalf of Her Majesty in the
Exchequer Court of Canada.
(6) Where Government of Canada Bonds
or other securities are transferred to or
recovered by the Receiver General under this
section, they shall be held for the account of
the Fund until maturity or until the Board
directs that they be sold.
(7) The Receiver General shall credit to the
Fund semi-annually interest on the minimum
balance to the credit of the Fund in each
month at the rate of four and three-quarters
per cent per annum for a period of five years
from the 29th day of June 1965, and thereafter
for each successive period of five years, at
such rate as may be prescribed by the
Governor in Council in the year preceding
the first year of each such period as the
effective interest rate on long term Govern-
Majesty in trust for the purposes of this Act.
(9) Any money or securities received for the
purposes of the Fund by way of gift, bequest,
voluntary repayment of grant or otherwise,
and any money recovered by virtue of
paragraph 9(2)(d), shall be paid or transferred
to the Receiver General and credited to the
Fund. R.S., c. 10, s. 3 ; R.S., c. 303, s. 1 ; 1960-
61, c. 31, s. 1; 1965, c. 13, s. 1.

**4.** (1) There shall be constituted a Board
to be called The Army Benevolent Fund
Board consisting of five members appointed
by the Governor in Council of whom one
shall have been nominated by the Royal
Canadian Legion and one by the National
Council of Veterans Associations in Canada.
(2) No member of the Board shall hold or
occupy a position in the public service of
Canada.
(3) The members of the Board shall be
appointed for a term of four years, except
that of the members first appointed one shall
be appointed for a term of six years, two for
a term of four years each and two for a term
of two years each.
(4) A member is, upon the expiration of his
term of office, eligible for re-appointment.
(5) Upon a vacancy in the membership of
the Board occurring by reason of the
expiration of the term of office of a member
or otherwise, a new member shall be appointed
in the same manner as the member previously
holding that office.
(6) One member of the Board shall be
designated by the Governor in Council as
Chairman.
(7) Three members constitute a quorum.
(8) Each member has one vote and if, in
case, the number of votes are equal, the
has an additional vote.
(9) The head office of the Board shall be
the city of Ottawa.
(10) The Governor in Council may remove
member of the Board for cause.
(11) The Board is not an agent of Her
Majesty and its officers and employees are
not part of the public service of Canada. R.S.,
c. 10, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Board shall establish a commit
tee for each province, one for the United
Kingdom and one for the United States ; and
it may constitute a committee for the Yukon
Territory and a committee for the Northwest
Territories.
(2) Each committee shall consist of three
members, one of whom shall be appointed by
the Board and shall be the Chairman of the
committee and two of whom shall be
appointed, after consultation with veterans
organizations, by the Chairman of the
committee with the approval of the Board.
(3) Each member of a committee shall be
appointed for a term of four years and be
eligible for re-appointment.
(4) Upon a vacancy in the membership of
a committee occurring by reason of the
expiration of the term of office of a member
or otherwise, a new member shall be appointed
in the same manner as the member previously
holding that office. R.S., c. 10, s. 5.

**5.** (j) T ne Board may, upon the recom
mendation of a committee, establish one or
more subcommittees to function within a
prescribed area.
(2) A subcommittee shall consist of such
number of members appointed for such periods
of time as shall be determined by the Board.
(3) One member of each subcommittee shall
be appointed by the committee and shall be
Chairman and the other members of the
subcommittee shall be appointed by the
Chairman thereof.
(4) Upon a vacancy in the membership of
a subcommittee occurring by reason of the
expiration of the term of office of a member
or otherwise, a new member shall be appointed
in the same manner as the member previously
holding that office. R.S., c. 10, s. 6.

**7.** Members of the Board and of committees
shall serve without salary or other remunera
tion but a member may, in the discretion of
Board, be paid a per diem allowance in an
amount to be fixed by the Board for days
in attendance at meetings of the Board
or committee, respectively, and while travel
ling from or returning to his place of residence
and his actual travelling expenses while
travelling in the performance of his duties
under this Act. R.S., c. 10, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Board shall appoint a veteran
as Secretary to the Board at an annual salary
to be fixed by the Board and may appoint
such other officers, clerks and employees as
may be required on such terms and conditions
as it deems expedient; but where there is
available a qualified veteran to fill any
position, preference in appointment shall be
given such veteran.
(2) The Board may incur such expenses as
it considers necessary for carrying out this
Act; and expenses, including salaries, shall
be paid out of the Fund.
(3) The Board is authorized to incur and
pay expenses of and incidental to the
operation of the Act, out of the Fund. R.S.,
c. 10,8.8; 1960-61,0.31,8.2.

**9.** (1) There shall be paid out of the Fund
to or for the benefit of veterans or their
dependants or the widows or children or
former dependants of deceased veterans such
amounts as the Board may from time to time
determine.
(2) The Board shall be governed by the
following principles:
  * (_a_) plans shall be formulated on the
assumption that there will be prospective
beneficiaries for fifty years from the
establishment of the Fund ;
  * (_b_) no grant is to be made by way of relief
from the Fund where adequate relief is, at
the time of the application, available from
federal, provincial or municipal govern
mental sources ;
  * (_c_) where grants are made to assist in the
need and satisfactory progress and not as
competitive scholarships based on academic
standing ; and
  * (_d_) amounts paid out of the Fund are not
recoverable, unless obtained by fraud or
misrepresentation. R.S., c. 10, s. 9.

**10.** (1) A committee or subcommittee estab
lished under this Act shall, under the general
control and supervision of the Board and
within its territorial area, receive and investi
gate applications for assistance and approve
or refuse them.
(2) Where a committee approves an applica
tion for assistance not exceeding three hundred
dollars, it may grant the assistance without
reference to the Board and for this purpose
advances may be made to the committee out
of the Fund in such amounts and in such
manner as the Board may direct.
(3) Where a subcommittee approves an
application for assistance not exceeding fiftj
dollars, it may grant the assistance without
reference to the Board or committee and for
this purpose advances may be made to the
subcommittee out of the Fund in such
amounts and in such manner as the Board
may direct. R.S., c. 10, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Auditor General of Canada
shall examine, annually, the accounts of the
Board.
(2) The reports of the Auditor General shall
be submitted to the Board. R.S., c. 10, s. 11;
1960-61, c. 31, s. 3.

**12.** (1) The Board may make regulations
prescribing the manner in which its business
or the business of a committee or a subcom
mittee shall be carried on and generally for
carrying out this Act.
(2) Regulations shall, when made, be pub
lished in the Canada Gazette and a copy
thereof forwarded to the Minister who shall
lay it before Parliament forthwith if Parlia
ment is in session or within fifteen days of
the commencement of the next session of
Parliament. R.S., c. 10, s. 12.
Tn e Board shall, as soon as practicable
after the 31st day of March in each year, and
in any event, within three months thereof,
prepare and submit to the Minister an annual
report of its affairs and operations during the
twelve-month period ending on that day ; and
the Minister shall forthwith lay the report
before Parliament if Parliament is in session
or within fifteen days of the commencement
of the next session of Parliament. R.S., c. 10,
s. 13.
