
# CHAPTER A- 19
An Act relating to the development and
control of atomic energy
WHEREAS it is essential in the national
interest to make provision for the control and
supervision of the development, application
and use of atomic energy, and to enable
Canada to participate effectively in measures
of international control of atomic energy
which may hereafter be agreed upon ; There
fore, His Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate and House of Commons
of Canada, enacts as follows:

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Atomic
Energy Control Act. R.S., c. 11, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"atomic energy" means all energy of whatever
type derived from or created by the
transmutation of atoms ;
"Board" means the Atomic Energy Control
Board established by section 3 ;
"company" means a company incorporated
pursuant to paragraph 10(2)(a) or (c) and
any company the direction and control of
which is assumed by the Minister pursuant
to paragraph 10(2)(6);
"member" means a member of the Board;
"Minister" means the member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada designated by
the Governor in Council as the Minister for
the purposes of this Act ;
"prescribed substances" means uranium, thori
um, plutonium, neptunium, deuterium,
their respective derivatives and compounds
and any other substances that the Board
may by regulation designate as being
capable of releasing atomic energy, or as
being requisite for the production, use or
application of atomic energy;
means the President of the Board.
R.S.,c. ll,s. 2; 1953-54, c. 47, s. 1; 1966-67,
c. 25, s. 41 ; SOR/69-262.

**3.** (1) There is hereby constituted a body
corporate to be called the Atomic Energy
Control Board for the purposes hereinafter
set out and with powers exercisable by it only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Board on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Board in the name of the
Board in any court that would have jurisdic
tion if the Board were not an agent of Her
Majesty. R.S., c. 11, s. 3; 1953-54, c. 47, s. 2.

**4.** (1) The Board shall consist of the person
who from time to time holds the office of
President of the National Research Council
of Canada as defined in the National Research
Council Act and four other members appointed
by the Governor in Council.
(2) The members of the Board appointed
by the Governor in Council hold office during
pleasure and shall be paid such, if any,
salaries as may from time to time be fixed by
the Governor in Council.
(3) Each member shall receive his travelling
and other expenses in connection with the
work of the Board.
(4) Three members constitute a quorum.
(5) A vacancy in the Board does not impair
the right of the remaining members to act.
R.S.,c. ll,s.4; 1966-67, c. 26, s. 13.

**5.** (1) One of the members shall be appoint
by the Governor in Council to be the
President of the Board.
(2) The President is the chief executive
of the Board and has supervision over
direction of the work of the Board and
of the officers, technical and otherwise,
employed for the purpose of carrying on the
work of the Board. R.S., c. 11, s. 5.

**6.** The Board shall meet at least three
times a year in the city of Ottawa on such
days as it may determine and may also meet
at such other times and at such places as it
may determine. 1953-54, c. 47, s. 3.

**7.** The Board shall comply with any
general or special direction given by the
Minister with reference to the carrying out of
its purposes. 1953-54, c. 47, s. 3.

**8.** The Board may,
  * (_a_) make rules for regulating its proceedings
and the performance of its functions ;
(6) notwithstanding any statute or law,
appoint and employ such professional,
scientific, technical and other officers and
employees as the Board deems necessary
for the purposes of this Act ;
  * (_c_) with the approval of the Minister, fix
the tenure of appointment, the duties and,
subject to the approval of the Treasury
Board, the remuneration, of officers and
employees appointed or employed by the
Board ;
  * (_d_) with the approval of the Minister,
disseminate or provide for the dissemination
of information relating to atomic energy to
such extent and in such manner as the
Board may deem to be in the public
interest; and
  * (_e_) without limiting the generality of any
other provision of this Act, establish,
through the National Research Council of
Canada or otherwise, scholarships and
grants in aid for research and investigations
with respect to atomic energy, or for the
education or training of persons to qualify
them to engage in such research and
investigations. 1953-54, c. 47, s. 3.
and licensing the production, application
and use of atomic energy ;
  * (_c_) respecting mining and prospecting for
prescribed substances ;
  * (_d_) regulating the production, import,
export, transportation, refining, possession,
ownership, use or sale of prescribed sub
stances and any other things that in the
opinion of the Board may be used for the
production, use or application of atomic
energy ;
  * (_e_) for the purpose of keeping secret
information respecting the production, use
and application of, and research and
investigations with respect to, atomic ener
gy, as in the opinion of the Board, the
public interest may require ;
(/) governing cooperation and the mainte
nance of contact, through international
organizations or otherwise, with scientists
in other countries or with other countries
with respect to the production, use, applica
tion and control of, and research and
investigations with respect to, atomic ener
gy; and
  * (_gr_) generally as the Board may deem
necessary for carrying out any of the
provisions or purposes of this Act. R.S., c.
ll,s.9.

**10.** (1) The Minister may,
  * (_a_) undertake or cause to be undertaken
researches and investigations with respect
to atomic energy ;
(6) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, utilize, cause to be utilized and
prepare for the utilization of atomic energy ;
  * (_c_) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, acquire or cause to be acquired by
purchase, lease, requisition or expropriation,
prescribed substances and any mines, depos
its or claims of prescribed substances and
patent rights relating to atomic energy and
any works or property for production or
preparation for production of, or for research
or investigation with respect to, atomic
energy; and
  * (_d_) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, license or otherwise make available
or sell or otherwise dispose of discoveries,
inventions and improvements in processes,
apparatus or machines, and patent rights
acquired under this Act and collect royalties
and fees thereon and payments therefor.
(2) The Minister may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council,
  * (_a_) procure the incorporation of any one or
more companies under Part I of the Canada
Corporations Act for the objects and purposes
of exercising and performing on behalf of
the Minister such of the powers conferred
on the Minister by subsection (1) as the
Minister may from time to time direct,
(6) assume, by transfer of shares or other
wise, the direction and control of any one
or more companies incorporated under Part
I of the Canada Corporations Act since the
15th day of September 1935, all the issued
share capital of which is owned by or held
in trust for Her Majesty in right of Canada
except shares necessary to qualify other
persons as directors and may delegate to
any such company any of the powers
conferred on the Minister by subsection (1),
and
  * (_c_) procure the incorporation of any one or
more companies under Part I of the Canada
Corporations Act for the purpose of acquir
ing, holding and exercising, by share
holding or otherwise, control of any one or
more companies incorporated pursuant to
paragraph (a) or the control of which is
assumed by the Minister pursuant to
paragraph (fc).
(3) The shares, except shares necessary to
qualify other persons as directors, of the
capital stock of a company incorporated
pursuant to paragraph (2)(a) or (c) or the
control of which is assumed by the Minister
pursuant to paragraph (2)(b) shall be owned
or held by the Minister, or by another
company, in trust for Her Majesty in right of
Canada.
(4) A company is for all its purposes an
of Her Majesty and its powers may be
contract in its corporate name without
reference to Her Majesty.
(6) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by a company on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the company in the name of the
company in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the company were not an agent
of Her Majesty.
(7) Nothing in this section affects the
application to a company of regulations made
under section 9. 1953-54, c. 47, s. 4.

**11.** Any person who at the time of his
employment with the Board held a position
in the civil service, or was an employee within
the meaning of the Civil Service Act or the
Public Service Employment Act, continues to
retain and is eligible for all the benefits,
except salary as an employee in the Public
Service, that he would have retained or been
eligible to receive had he remained an em
ployee in the Public Service. R.S., c. 11, s. 11 ;
1953-54, c. 47, s. 5.

**12.** The Government Employees Compensa
tion Act applies to officers and employees
employed by the Board and for the purposes
of that Act such officers and employees shall
be deemed to be employees in the service of
Her Majesty. R.S., c. 11, s. 12.

**13.** Whenever any property has been
requisitioned or expropriated under this Act
and the compensation to be made therefor
has not been agreed upon, the claim for
compensation shall be referred by the Minister
of Justice to the Exchequer Court of Canada.
R.S., c. ll.s. 14.

**14.** Subject to this Act, the Board is subject
to the provisions of the Financial Administra
tion Act. R.S., c. 11, s. 15.

**15.** All expenses under this Act shall be
paid out of moneys appropriated by Parlia
ment for the purpose or received by the Board
or a company through the conduct of its
operations, bequest, donation or otherwise.
R.S., c. ll.s. 16.

**16.** All receipts and expenditures of the
shall be subject to examination and
by the Auditor General of Canada.
11,8. 17.

**17.** All works and undertakings whether
heretofore constructed or hereafter to be
constructed,
  * (_a_) for the production, use and application
of atomic energy,
(6) for research or investigation with respect
to atomic energy, and
  * (_c_) for the production, refining or treatment
of prescribed substances,
are and each of them is declared to be works
or a work for the general advantage of
Canada. R.S., c. 11, s. 18.

**18.** (1) Every member and every officer
and employee of and every person acting
under the direction of the Board shall, before
acting as such, take before a justice of the
peace or a commissioner for taking affidavits,
an oath of fidelity and secrecy in the form
set out in the schedule.
(2) Every director and every officer and
employee of a company shall, before acting
as such, take before a justice of the peace or
a commissioner for taking affidavits, an oath
of fidelity and secrecy in the form set out in
the schedule. R.S., c. 11, s. 19.

**19.** (1) Any person who contravenes or
fails to observe the provisions of this Act or
of any regulation made thereunder is guilty
of an offence and is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to both, but
such person may, at the election of the
Attorney General of Canada or of the province
in which the offence is alleged to have been
committed, be prosecuted upon indictment,
and if found guilty is liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand dollars or to impris
onment for a term not exceeding five years or
to both.
(2) Where an offence described in subsection
(1) has been committed by a company or
corporation, every person who at the time of
guilty of the like offence if he assented to or
acquiesced in the commission of the offence
or if he knew that the offence was about to
be committed and made no attempt to prevent
its commission, and in a prosecution of a
director or officer for such like offence, it is
not necessary to allege or prove a prior
prosecution or conviction of the company or
corporation for the offence. R.S., c. 11, s. 20.

**20.** (1) The Board shall as soon as possible
after the 31st day of March in each year and
in any event within three months thereof
submit to the Minister an annual report in
such form as the Minister may prescribe of its
affairs and operations during the twelve
month period ending on the 31st day of
March and the Minister shall lay the report
before Parliament forthwith, or, if Parliament
is not then in session, within the first fifteen
days of the next ensuing session.
(2) The Board shall, in addition to making
an annual report under subsection (1), make
to the Minister such other report of its affairs
and operations as the Minister may require.
1953-54, c. 47, s. 6.

## SCHEDULE
OATH OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY (Section 18(1))
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully, truly
and to the best of my judgment, skill and ability, execute and
perform the duties required of me as a member (or officer or
employee or person acting under the direction, as the case may
be), of the Atomic Energy Control Board.
I further solemnly swear that I will not communicate or
allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled
thereto any information relating to the affairs of the Board,
nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access to
any books or documents belonging to or in the possession of
the Board and relating to its business.
OATH OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY (Section 18(2))
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully, truly
and to the best of my judgment, skill and ability, execute and
perform the duties required of me as a director (or officer or
employee, as the case may be,) of
I further solemnly swear that I will not communicate or
allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled
thereto any information relating to the affairs of the said
company nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have
access to any books or documents belonging to or in the
possession of the said company and relating to its business.
RS, c. ll.Sch.
