Products Board Act. R.S., c. 4, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"agricultural product" means livestock and
livestock products, poultry and poultry
products, milk and milk products, vegetables
and vegetable products, fruit and fruit
products, honey, maple syrup, tobacco, fibre
and fodder crops, and any product of
agriculture designated by the Governor in
Council as an agricultural product for the
purposes of this Act ;
"Board" means the Agricultural Products
Board established by this Act ;
"member" means a member of the Board ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture.
R.S., c. 4, s. 2.

**3.** (1) There shall be a board to be called
the Agricultural Products Board consisting of
not less than three and not more than seven
members appointed by the Governor in
Council.
(2) The Governor in Council may designate
one of the members to be Chairman and one
of the members to be Vice-Chairman.
(3) When any member of the Board, by
reason of absence or other incapacity, is
unable at any time to perform the duties of
his office, the Minister may appoint a
temporary substitute member for a period of
not more than four months, upon such terms
and conditions as the Minister prescribes.
(4) The headquarters of the Board shall be
at Ottawa and meetings of the Board shall be
at Ottawa or at such other place as the
Board determines.
(5) The Board may make rules governing
its proceedings under this Act.
(6) The Governor in Council may fix the
salaries or other remuneration of members of
the Board.
(7) Officers, clerks and employees required
for the proper conduct of the business of the
Board shall be appointed in accordance with
the Public Service Employment Act, but the
Minister may require any officer, clerk or
employee on the staff of the Department of
Agriculture to serve on the staff of the Board
without additional remuneration. R.S., c. 4, s.

**3.**

**4.** (1) Subject to the regulations, the Board
may, with the authority of the Governor in
Council and under the direction of the
Minister
  * (_a_) sell or deliver agricultural products to
the government of any country or any
agency thereof pursuant to any agreement
made by the Government of Canada with
the government of such country or with
such agency, and for those purposes may
purchase agricultural products and make
such arrangements for the purchase, sale
or delivery of agricultural products as it
considers necessary or desirable ;
  * (_b_) purchase or negotiate contracts for the
purchase of agricultural products on behalf
of the government of any country or any
agency thereof ;
  * (_c_) buy, sell, or import agricultural prod
ucts;
  * (_d_) by order require any person to give, at
the time specified in the order, such
information respecting agricultural prod
ucts as may be necessary for the proper
administration of this Act ; and
  * (_e_) store, transport or process, or enter into
contracts for the storing, transportation or
processing, of agricultural products.
(2) The authority given by the Governor in
(3) Except with the approval of the Gover
nor in Council, the Board shall not sell an
agricultural product pursuant to paragraph
(l)(a) or (c) at a price lower than the purchase
price thereof plus handling, storage and
transportation costs.
(4) A contract entered into by the Board on
behalf of Her Majesty may be entered into in
the name of the Board or in the name of Her
Majesty.
(5) The Board may, when so appointed
under paragraph 10(l)(e) of the Agricultural
Stabilization Act, undertake the purchase and
the disposition of agricultural products for
the purposes of that Act.
(6) The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect. R.S., c. 4, s.
4; 1957-58, c. 22, s. 15(4).

**5.** (1) Subject to this section, all moneys
required for the buying, storing, transporting
or processing of agricultural products under
subsection 4(1) may be paid out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(2) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund an account to
be known as the Agricultural Products Board
Account to which shall be credited all moneys
received from any transaction respecting
agricultural products under subsection 4(1)
and to which shall be charged all moneys
paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund
pursuant to subsection (1).
(3) A payment made out of the Consolidat
ed Revenue Fund under subsection (1) shall
not be greater than the amount by which
fifteen million dollars exceeds the balance of
the Agricultural Products Board Account.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3)
"balance of the Agricultural Products Board
Account" means the aggregate of all payments
charged to the Account minus the aggregate
of all amounts credited to the Account.
(5) All expenditures for the purposes of this
Act, other than those required for the buying,
storing, transporting or processing of agricul
tural products, shall be paid out of moneys
appropriated by Parliament. R.S., c. 4, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Every person who violates an order
of the Board made pursuant to paragraph
4(l)(d) is guilty of an offence and is liable on
summary conviction,
  * (_a_) in the case of a producer, to a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months, or to both, and
(6) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months, or to
both.
(2) Where a corporation is guilty of an
offence under this Act, any officer, director
or agent of the corporation who directed,
authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or
participated in the commission of the offence
is a party to and guilty of the offence.
(3) In any prosecution under subsection (1)
evidence of an order of the Board may be
given by the production of a copy thereof
purporting to be certified to be a copy by the
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary or other
official of the Board. R.S., c. 4, s. 6.

**7.** The Minister shall annually prepare a
report with respect to the administration of
this Act during the preceding calendar year,
and such report shall thereupon be laid before
Parliament, or, if Parliament is not then
sitting, within fifteen days after the com
mencement of the next ensuing session. R.S.,
c. 4, s. 7.
