
# CHAPTER A-9
An Act to provide for the stabilization of the
prices of agricultural commodities
WHEREAS it is expedient to enact a measure
for the purpose of stabilizing the prices of
agricultural commodities in order to assist the
industry of agriculture to realize fair returns
for its labour and investment, and to maintain
a fair relationship between prices received by
farmers and the costs of the goods and services
that they buy, thus to provide farmers with a
fair share of the national income ; Therefore
Her Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate and House of Commons
of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Agricultural
Stabilization Act. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"agricultural commodity" means
  * (_a_) any of the following commodities pro
duced in Canada, namely, cattle, hogs and
sheep; butter, cheese and eggs; and wheat,
oats and barley not produced in the
designated area as defined in the Canadian
Wheat Board Act; hereinafter called
"named commodity", and
(6) any other natural or processed product
of agriculture designated by the Governor
in Council as an agricultural commodity
for the purposes of this Act, hereinafter
called "designated commodity" ;
"base price", in relation to an agricultural
commodity, means the base price as estab-
lished under section 8 ;
means the Agricultural Stabilization
Board established by this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
price" means,
  * (_a_) in relation to a named commodity,
eighty per cent of the base price thereof, or
such higher percentage of the base price
thereof as the Governor in Council pre
scribes, and
(6) in relation to a designated commodity,
such percentage of the base price thereof as
the Governor in Council prescribes.
(2) In prescribing a percentage of the base
price of an agricultural commodity under
paragraph (a) or (6) of the definition
"prescribed price" in subsection (1), the
Governor in Council shall be guided by the
estimated average cost of production of the
commodity, and such other factors as the
Governor in Council considers to be relevant.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 2.

## AGRICULTURAL STABILIZATION BOARD

**3.** (1) There shall be a corporation to be
known as the Agricultural Stabilization Board
consisting of three members appointed by the
Governor in Council.
0,
(2) The Governor in Councifshall designate
one of the members to be Chairman of the
Board and one of the members to be Vice-
Chairman of the Board.
(3) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Board.
(4) Each member of the Board may be paid
such salary or other amount by way of
remuneration as is fixed by the Governor in
Council, and may be paid reasonable travel
ling and living expenses incurred by him
while absent from his ordinary place of
residence in the course of his duties.
(5) If any member of the Board is absent
or unable to act, the Governor in Council
may appoint a temporary substitute member
for such term and upon such conditions as the
Governor in Council prescribes.
  * (_g_) The head office of the Board shall be
in the city of Ottawa, but meetings of the
Board may be held at such other place as the
Board may decide. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Board is for all purposes an
agent of Her Majesty in right of Canada, and
its powers under this Act may be exercised by
it only as such agent.
(2) The Board may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Board.
(3) Property acquired by the Board is the
property of Her Majesty and title thereto
may be vested in the name of Her Majesty or
in the name of the Board.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Board on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Board in the name of the
Board in any court that would have jurisdic
tion if the Board were not an agent of Her
Majesty.
(5) The Board shall comply with any
directions from time to time given to it by
the Governor in Council or the Minister
respecting the exercise or performance of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 4.

## ADVISORY COMMITTEE

**5.** (1) The Minister shall appoint an Advi
sory Committee consisting of a chairman and
at least six but not more than nine other
members composed of farmers and represent
atives of farm organizations.
(2) The Advisory Committee established
under subsection (1) shall meet at least twice
a year and shall advise the Minister and the
Board with respect to such matters relating to
the stabilization of prices of agricultural
commodities under this Act as are referred to
it by the Minister or the Board.
(3) The members of the Advisory Commit
tee may be paid for their services such
remuneration and expenses as are fixed by
the Governor in Council. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 5.

## STAFF

**6.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
in Council, the Board may employ such
professional, technical or other officers, clerks
and employees as it deems necessary for the
proper conduct of its business and may fix
their remuneration.
(2) Any member or employee of the Board
who, at the time of his appointment or
employment under or pursuant to this Act,
held a position in the civil service or Public
Service, or was an employee within the
meaning of the Civil Service Act or the Public
Service Employment Act, retains and is eligible
to receive all the benefits, except salary as an
employee in the Public Service, that he would
have retained or been eligible to receive had
he remained an employee in the Public
Service. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 6.

## DUTIES OF BOARD

**7.** (1) The Board shall from time to time
in accordance with this Act take such action
as is necessary to stabilize the prices of
agricultural commodities at their respective
prescribed prices, and shall take such action
and make such recommendations as are
necessary to ensure that the prescribed prices
for an agricultural commodity in effect from
time to time shall bear a fair relationship to
the cost of production of such commodity.
(2) Action by the Board to stabilize the
price of an agricultural commodity under this
Act shall be taken in relation to the
agricultural commodity or in relation to such
grade, quality, variety, class, type or form
thereof, and with reference to such place or
places, as the Board considers appropriate.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 7.

**8.** (1) In each year the Board shall establish
the base price for each agricultural commodity,
or the grade, quality, variety, class, type or
form thereof, the price of which is to be
stabilized under this Act.
(2) The base price of an agricultural
commodity shall be the average price at repre
sentative markets as determined by the Board
for the ten years immediately preceding the
in which the base price is established.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 8.

**9.** (1) Action by the Board under paragraph
10(l)(a), (6) or (c) in relation to an agricultural
commodity shall commence at such time in
each year as is determined by the Board, and
shall continue thereafter for a period of twelve
months or, in the case of a designated
commodity, for such other period as the
Governor in Council prescribes.
(2) The percentage of the base price of a
named commodity higher than eighty pre
scribed under paragraph (a) of the definition
"prescribed price" in subsection 2(1), and the
designation of an agricultural commodity
under paragraph (b) of the definition
"agricultural commodity" in subsection 2(1),
ceases to have effect at the end of the period
mentioned in subsection (1) in relation to that
commodity. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 9.

## POWERS OF BOARD

**10.** (1) Subject to and in accordance with
any regulations that may be made by the
Governor in Council, the Board may
  * (_a_) purchase any agricultural commodity
at the prescribed price ;
  * (_b_) pay to producers of an agricultural
commodity, directly or through such agent
as the Board may determine, the amount
by which the prescribed price exceeds a
price determined by the Board to be the
average price at which the commodity is
sold in such markets and during such
periods as the Board considers appropriate ;
  * (_c_) make such payment for the benefit of
producers as the Governor in Council may
authorize for the purpose of stabilizing the
price of an agricultural commodity at the
prescribed price ;
  * (_d_) sell or otherwise dispose of, package,
process, store, ship, transport, export, insure
or otherwise deal in any commodity
purchased by the Board under this section ;
  * (_e_) enter into contracts or appoint agents to
do anything authorized under this Act ;
  * (_j_) purchase at the request of any depart
ment or agency of the Government of
Canada any agricultural commodity re
quired by such department or agency ; and
  * (_g_) do all such acts and things as are
necessary or incidental to the exercise of
any of its powers, duties or functions under
this Act.
(2) For the purpose of stabilizing the price
of an agricultural commodity, the Board may
exercise all or any of its powers under this
section in relation to any food product thereof,
and for the purposes of this section the
expression "prescribed price" in relation to
such food product shall be construed to be
such price as is determined by the Board to
be proportionate to the prescribed price for
such agricultural commodity.
(3) The Board may make rules for the
regulation of its proceedings and the perform
ance of its duties and functions under this
Act. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 10.

## REGULATIONS
1 1. The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 11.

## EXPENDITURES

**12.** All expenditures for salaries, travelling
expenses and expenses of administration,
excluding those that in the opinion of the
Board are directly attributable to action taken
by the Board to stabilize the price of an
agricultural commodity, shall be paid out of
moneys appropriated by Parliament for the
purpose. 1957-58, c. 22, s. 12.

**13.** (1) Subject to this section, all expendi
tures under this Act, except those referred to
in section 12, shall be paid by the Minister of
Finance out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund on the requisition of the Board.
(2) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund an account to
be known as the Agricultural Commodities
Stabilization Account, in this section called
the "Account".
(3) There shall be charged to the Account :
  * (_a_) all expenditures under this Act, except
those referred to in section 12 ; and
tions of the Account for a fiscal year, as
determined by the Minister of Finance
under subsection (7).
(4) There shall be credited to the Account
  * (_a_) all moneys received by the Board from
its operations;
(6) the net operating loss on the operations
of the Account for a fiscal year, to the
extent authorized by Parliament ; and
  * (_c_) amounts transferred from appropria
tions for expenditure by any department or
agency of the Government of Canada in
respect of expenditures incurred by the
Board for those departments or agencies
under paragraph 10(1)(/).
(5) A payment made out of the Consolidat
ed Revenue Fund under subsection (1),
together with the balance of the Account,
shall not be greater than two hundred and
fifty million dollars.
(6) For the purposes of this section,
"balance of the Account" means the aggregate
of all amounts charged to the Account minus
the aggregate of all amounts credited to the
Account.
(7) At the end of each fiscal year, the
Minister of Finance shall determine the net
profit or loss on the operations of the Account
for that fiscal year, and if he determines that
there is a net profit it shall be charged to the
Account, but if he determines that there is a
net loss, no amount shall be credited to the
Account in respect thereof without the
authority of Parliament.
(8) Before the end of each fiscal year, an
estimate of the profit or loss on the operations
of the Account shall be made by the Minister,
and if it appears to him that a net loss may
result from the operations of the Account for
that fiscal year, the estimated amount thereof
shall, unless the Governor in Council otherwise
directs, be included in Estimates submitted
by the Minister to the Governor in Council.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 13.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**14.** The Board shall, within three months
after the termination of each fiscal year,
submit to the Minister, in such form as he
may prescribe, an annual report of the
financial transactions and proceedings taken
under this Act, and the Minister shall lay the
report before Parliament within fifteen days
after the receipt thereof, or if Parliament is
not then sitting, on any of the first fifteen
days next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
1957-58, c. 22, s. 14.
