Act. R.S , c. 20, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
bridge" means every bridge to which this
Act applies ;
company" means any company incorporated
under the authority or within the jurisdic
tion of the Parliament of Canada, not being
a railway company or otherwise subject to
the control of the Minister ;
engineer" includes engineers when more
than one are appointed ;
Minister" means the Minister of Public
Works. R.S., c. 20, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.

## APPLICATION

**3.** This Act applies to every bridge and the
approaches thereto, and the appliances or
works appurtenant thereto, built or construc
ted by any company. R.S., c. 20, s. 3.

## GENERAL

**4.** No bridge shall be opened for public use
  * (_a_) until one month after notice in writing
of intention to open the bridge has been
given to the Minister by the company to
whom the bridge belongs ; or
(6) until ten days after notice in writing
has been given by the company to the
Minister of the time when the bridge will,
in the opinion of the company, be suffi
ciently completed for inspection and use
with safety. R.S., c. 20, s. 4; 1966-67, c. 69,
s. 36.

**5.** (i) The Minister, upon receiving a notice
j . i 1 1 j
under section 4, shall direct an engineer
attached to or employed by the Department
of Public Works, to examine the bridge
proposed to be opened and report to the
Minister, in writing, his opinion as to the
completeness and sufficiency of the bridge,
with the grounds for such opinion.
(2) Where the engineer reports that, in his
opinion, the bridge would, by reason of
incompleteness or insufficiency, be dangerous
to the public using it, the Minister, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, may
order the company to whom the bridge
belongs to postpone the opening for a period
not exceeding one month.
(3) The Minister may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, in like manner, from
time to time thereafter, on further inspection
of the bridge by an engineer directed under
subsection (1), after ten days notice given
under paragraph 4(6), on a report to the like
effect from the engineer as to incompleteness
or insufficiency, until it appears to the
Minister that the opening of the bridge may
take place without danger to the public, make
a like order for postponement of the opening
of the bridge. R.S., c. 20, s. 5; 1966-67, c. 69,
s. 36.

**6.** No order made under section 5 is binding
upon any company unless a copy of the report
of the inspecting engineer on which the order
is founded is delivered to the company with
the order. R.S., c. 20, s. 6.

**7.** The Minister may direct any engineer
attached to or employed by the Department
of Public Works to examine, inspect and
report to the Minister on any bridge, whenever
he receives information to the effect that such
bridge, through want of repair, insufficiency,
or erroneous construction, or from any other
20, s. 7 ; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.

**8.** (1) The Minister, upon the report of the
engineer, may
  * (_a_) condemn the bridge or any portion
thereof, or any of the works or appliances
connected therewith ; and
(6) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, require the substitution of a new
bridge for such bridge, or a portion thereof
to be renewed, or the use of any materials
for any part of such bridge, or any change
or alteration therein or any part thereof.
(2) The company to which such bridge
belongs, or the company using or controlling
the bridge, in case the bridge is in use or
controlled by some other company, shall
thereupon, upon notice from the Minister of
any defect or insufficiency in such bridge or
any portion thereof so reported, or of any
requirement of the Minister under subsection
(1), proceed to make good or remedy any such
defect or insufficiency, and make the change,
alteration, substitution or use of material
specified as a requirement in such notice.
R.S., c. 20, s. 8 ; 1966-67, c. 69, ss. 36, 37.

**9.** Any engineer authorized to inspect any
bridge may, at all reasonable times, upon
producing his authority, if required, enter
upon and examine the bridge. R.S., c. 20, s. 9.

**10.** Every company and the officers and
directors thereof shall afford to the inspecting
engineer such information as is within their
knowledge and power in all matters inquired
into by him, and shall submit to such
inspecting engineer all contracts, plans,
specifications, drawings and documents relat
ing to the construction, repair, or state of
repair of such bridge. R.S., c. 20, s. 10.

**11.** The production of instructions in
writing signed by the Minister is sufficient
evidence of the authority of an inspecting
engineer. 1966-67, c. 69, s. 37.

**12.** When in his opinion the bridge is
dangerous, the inspecting engineer may, by
notice in writing, stating the reasons for his
opinion, and distinctly specifying the defects
or the nature of the danger to be apprehended,
delivered to the president, managing director,
secretary or superintendent of the company
owning, using or controlling such bridge,
forbid, until alterations, substitutions or
repairs are made therein,
  * (_a_) the running of any railway or tramway
trains or car over any such bridge when the
bridge is intended for, and, in his opinion,
dangerous to the passage of such train or
car;
  * (_b_) the passage of any vehicle over such
bridge when the bridge is intended for, and,
in his opinion, dangerous to the passing of
vehicles thereover ; or
  * (_c_) the passing of any passenger over such
bridge when the bridge is intended for, and,
in his opinion, dangerous to passengers.
R.S.,c. 20, s. 12.

**13.** The inspecting engineer shall forthwith
report the circumstances of the case to the
Minister, who, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, may either confirm,
modify or disallow the act or order of the
inspecting engineer, and notice of such
confirmation, modification or disallowance
shall be duly given to the company affected
thereby. R.S., c. 20, s. 13; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.

**14.** No inspection had under this Act, nor
anything in this Act, nor anything done, or
ordered, or omitted to be done, or ordered
under or by virtue of this Act,
  * (_a_) relieves or shall be construed to relieve
any company of or from any liability or
responsibility resting. upon it by law, to Her
Majesty or to any person, or the wife or
husband, parent or child, executor or
administrator, tutor or curator, heir or
personal representative of any person, for
anything done or omitted to be done by
such company, or for any wrongful act,
neglect or default, misfeasance, malfeasance
or non-feasance of such company ; or
(6) in any way weakens or diminishes the
liability or responsibility of any such
company, under the laws in force in the
province in which such liability or responsi
bility arises. R.S., c. 20, s. 14.

**15.** Every company shall be deemed to
have received sufficient information of any
order of the Minister, if a notice thereof,
signed by the Minister, is delivered to the
president, vice-president, managing director,
secretary or superintendent of the company,
or at the office of the company ; and every
such company shall be deemed to have
received sufficient information of any order
of the inspecting engineer, if a notice thereof,
signed by the engineer, is delivered as
hereinbefore provided. 1966-67, c. 69, s. 37.

**16.** Every company shall, as soon as
possible and within at least forty-eight hours
after the occurrence upon any bridge belong
ing to such company, of any accident attended
with serious personal injury to any person
using the bridge, or whereby the bridge has
been broken or so damaged as to render it
impassable or unsafe or unfit for immediate
use, give notice thereof to the Minister. R.S.,
c. 20, s. 16; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.

**17.** (1) Every company shall within one
month after the 1st days of January and July,
in each year, make to the Minister, under the
oath of its president, secretary or superin
tendent, a true and particular return of all
accidents and casualties to life or property
that have occurred on any bridge of the
company during the respective half years
next preceding the said 1st days of January
and July, setting forth
  * (_a_) the causes and natures of the accidents
and casualties;
(6) whether they occurred by night or by
day; and
  * (_c_) the full extent thereof, and all the
particulars of the accidents and casualties.
(2) The company shall also, at the same
transmit a true copy of the existing by
of the company and of its rules and
for the management of the
and of its bridge. R.S., c. 20, s. 17;
1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.
lg. The Minister may, from time to time,
order and direct the form in which returns
under section 17 shall be made up, and may,
with a view to public safety, from time to
time, in addition to those returns, order and
direct any company to make up and deliver
to the Minister, in such form and manner as
the Minister deems necessary and requires for
his information, returns of serious accidents
occurring in the course of public traffic upon
any bridge belonging to such company,
whether attended with personal injury or not.
R.S., c. 20, s. 18; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.

**19.** All returns made under section 17 or
18 are privileged communications, and shall
not be evidence in any court whatever. R.S.,
c. 20, s. 19.

## PENALTIES

**20.** Every company that opens its bridge
to the public in violation of any provision of
this Act requiring notice to be given to the
Minister, shall incur a penalty of two hundred
dollars for every day during which the bridge
remains open prior to the giving and expiring
of such notice. R.S., c. 20, s. 20 ; 1966-67, c. 69,
s. 36.

**21.** Every company that opens its bridge
for public use contrary to an order of the
Minister issued under this Act postponing the
time of the opening of the bridge, shall incur
a penalty of two hundred dollars for every
day during which the bridge remains open
contrary to such order. R.S., c. 20, s. 21 ; 1966-
67, c. 69, s. 36.

**22.** Every company that wilfully omits to
give to the Minister the notice of an accident
on or to its bridge required by this Act, shall
incur a penalty of two hundred dollars for
every day during which the omission to give
such notice continues. R.S., c. 20, s. 22; 1966-
67, c. 69, s. 36.

**23.** Every company that neglects to deliver
any return required by this Act, verified as
provided in this Act, within the respective
times prescribed by this Act, or to deliver any
return, other than the periodical returns
required by this Act, within fourteen days
after the return has been required by the
Minister, shall incur a penalty of one hundred
dollars for every day during which the
company neglects to deliver the return. R.S.,
c. 20,s.23; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 36.
