
# CHAPTER B-4
Act respecting savings banks in the
Province of Quebec

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Quebec
Savings Banks Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"bank" means a bank to which this Act
applies ;
"chartered bank" means a bank to which the
Bank Act applies ;
"district of Montreal" means the area in the
Province of Quebec included in the judicial
districts of Montreal, Hull, Pontiac, Temis-
camingue, Terrebonne, Joliette, Labelle,
Richelieu, St. Francis, Bedford, St. Hya-
cinthe, Iberville and Beauharnois, as con
stituted on the 1st day of May 1967 ;
"district of Quebec" means the area in the
Province of Quebec included in the judicial
districts of Quebec, Trois-Rivieres, Sague-
nay, Chicoutimi, Roberval, Nicolet, Gaspe,
Bonaventure, Rimouski, Kamouraska,
Montmagny, Beauce, Arthabaska, Abitibi
and Rouyn-Noranda, as constituted on the
1st day of May 1967 ;
"goods, wares and merchandise" means
"goods, wares and merchandise" as defined
in the Bank Act;
"Inspector" means the Inspector General of
Banks appointed under the Bank Act;
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance;
"recorded address" means
  * (_a_) in relation to a person as a shareholder,
his latest known post office address accord
ing to the icgister of shareholders of the
bank, and
(6) in relation to a person in any other
respect, his latest known post office address
according to the records of the branch
concerned ;
"securities" includes
  * (_a_) bonds, debentures and obligations of or
guaranteed by governments, corporations
or unincorporated bodies, whether such
corporations and unincorporated bodies are
governmental, municipal, school, ecclesias
tical, commercial or other, secured on real
or personal, immovable or movable property
or unsecured, and rights in respect of such
bonds, debentures and obligations,
  * (_b_) equipment trust certificates or obliga
tions, and
  * (_c_) all documents, instruments and writings
commonly known as securities,
whether issued within or outside Canada,
but does not include shares of capital stock
of corporations or rights in respect of such
shares. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 2.

**3.** (1) Where by this Act any public notice
is required to be given, the notice shall, unless
otherwise specified, be given by publishing
the notice in one or more newspapers published
at the place where the head office of the bank
is situated ; and the notice shall be published
in both the English and French languages.
(2) Where by this Act a notice is required
to be published in a newspaper for four weeks
or any longer period, publication each week
in a weekly newspaper, or once a week during
the period in a newspaper published more
frequently, is a sufficient publication for the
purposes of this Act.
(3) Where by this Act notice of any call is
required to be given to the shareholders the
notice is, unless otherwise specified, suffi
ciently given by mailing the notice registered
and postpaid, to the recorded address of the
respective shareholders at least thirty days
prior to the day on which the call is payable.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 3.

## APPLICATION

**4.** This Act applies to The Montreal City
and District Savings Bank. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 4 ;
1968-69, c. 57, s. 1.

## CHARTER

**5.** The charter of the bank is continued.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 5.

**6.** Subject to this Act,
  * (_a_) if Parliament sits on at least twenty
days during the month of June 1977, the
bank may carry on the business of banking
until the 1st day of July 1977 and no longer,
and
(6) if Parliament does not sit on at least
twenty days during the month of June 1977,
the bank may carry on the business of
banking until the sixtieth sitting day of
Parliament next thereafter, and no longer.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 6.

**7.** The provisions of the charter of the bank
are inapplicable
  * (_a_) to the extent that there is any incon
sistency between the provisions of the
charter and the provisions of this Act, and
(6) in respect of any matter for which
provision is made by this Act. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 7.

**8.** The head office of the Montreal City
and District Savings Bank shall be in the city
of Montreal and the bank may open branches
within the district of Montreal. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 8(1).

**9.** The Montreal City and District Savings
Bank may carry on business pursuant to this
Act under that name and under the name
"La Banque d Epargne de la Cite et du
District de Montreal". 1966-67, c. 93, s. 8(2).

## INTERNAL REGULATIONS
Shareholders
JQ. (j) Subject to this Act, the shareholders
of the bank may make by-laws with respect
to the following matters, namely :
the which the annual
months after the holding of the last annual
general meeting ;
(6) the record to be kept of proxies, and the
time, not exceeding twenty days, within
which proxies must be produced and
recorded prior to a meeting in order to
entitle the holder to vote thereon ;
  * (_c_) the number of directors, which shall be
not less than five, and the quorum thereof,
which shall be not less than three ;
  * (_d_) the qualifications of directors ;
  * (_e_) the method of filling vacancies in the
board of directors ;
(/) the time and proceedings for the election
of directors in case of a failure of any
election on the day appointed for it ;
  * (_gf_) the remuneration of the chairman of
the board, the president, vice-presidents
and other directors ;
  * (_h_) the amount of discounts or loans that
may be made to directors, either jointly or
severally, or to any one person, or to any
shareholder; and
  * (_i_) the establishment of guarantee and
pension funds for the officers and employees
of the bank and corporations of which the
bank owns all the issued and outstanding
capital stock except the qualifying shares
of directors, and the families of such officers
and employees, and the making of contri
butions thereto out of the funds of the
bank.
(2) By-laws authorized by this Act may be
made by the shareholders at any annual
general meeting or at any special general
meeting duly called for the purpose.
(3) Until it is otherwise prescribed by by
law under this Act, the by-laws of the bank
with respect to any matter set out in subsection
(1), in force on the 1st day of May 1967,
remain in force. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 10.
Directors
of a board of directors elected or
appointed in accordance with this Act. 1966-
c. 93, s. 11.

**12.** (1) A person is not eligible to be a
director unless he holds as the absolute and
sole owner thereof in his individual right and
not as trustee or in the right of another at
least five hundred fully-paid shares of the
capital stock of the bank.
(2) At least three-quarters of the directors
shall be Canadian citizens ordinarily resident
in Canada.
(3) The election or appointment of any
person as a director is void if the composition
of the board of directors would as a result
thereof fail to comply with subsection (2).
(4) After the first day of July 1970 a person
is not eligible to be elected or appointed a
director if he has reached the age of seventy-
five years. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The directors shall be elected by
the shareholders at the annual general
meeting.
(2) The annual general meeting shall be
held at the place where the head office of the
bank is situated.
(3) Public notice of the annual general
meeting shall be given by the directors by
publishing the notice, for at least four weeks
prior to the time of holding the meeting, in a
newspaper published at the place where the
head office of the bank is situated, and by
mailing a copy of the notice to each
shareholder at his recorded address at least
twenty days prior to the time of holding the
meeting.
(4) The persons, to the number authorized
to be elected, who have the greatest number
of votes at any election, shall be the directors,
but if at any election two or more persons
have an equal number of votes, and there are
not sufficient vacancies remaining in the
board of directors to enable all the persons
having an equal number of votes to be elected,
the directors who have a greater number of
votes, or the majority of them, shall, in order
to complete the full number of directors,
which of the persons so having an
number of votes shall be a director or
directors. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 13.

**14.** Where an election of directors is not
made on the day appointed for that purpose,
the election may take place on any other day,
according to the by-laws, and, subject to this
Act, the directors in office on the day
appointed for the election of directors remain
in office until new directors are elected or
appointed. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The shareholders may, at any
special general meeting of the shareholders
called for the purpose, remove any director.
(2) A director ceases to be a director if
  * (_a_) he ceases to fulfil the requirements of
subsection 12(1) with respect to holdings of
stock ;
  * (_b_) he becomes insolvent, or makes an
assignment for the benefit of his creditors,
or absents himself, without the consent of
the board for twelve consecutive months
from the meetings of the directors, or is
convicted of an indictable offence ; or
  * (_c_) he ceases to be a Canadian citizen
ordinarily resident in Canada and as a
result thereof the composition of the board
of directors ceases to comply with subsection
12(2). 1966-67, c. 93, s. 15.

**16.** (1) The directors shall elect by ballot
from their number a president and one or
more vice-presidents.
(2) The directors may elect by ballot from
their number a chairman of the board of
directors.
(3) A person elected to an office under this
section ceases to hold that office if he ceases
to be a director. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 16.

**17.** (1) Where a vacancy occurs in the
of directors, it shall be filled in the
of directors the composition of the
fails to comply with subsection 12(2),
the directors shall, if the vacancy has not
sixty days of the occurrence thereof
been filled under subsection (1), forthwith fill
the vacancy.
(3) A vacancy in the board of directors does
not impair the right of the remaining directors
to act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 17.

**18.** When a vacancy occurs in the office of
the president or vice-president, the directors
shall from their number elect a president or a
vice-president. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 18.

**19.** (1) The chairman of the board, if any,
or in his absence, the president, or in their
absence, a vice-president, shall preside at all
meetings of the directors.
(2) Where at any meeting of the directors,
the chairman of the board, if any, the
president and all vice-presidents are absent,
one of the directors present, chosen to act pro
tempore, shall preside.
(3) The person presiding pursuant to this
section has a vote as a director, and if there
is an equal division on any question, also has
a casting vote. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 19.

**20.** (1) The directors shall administer the
affairs of the bank and may make by-laws
with respect to any matter except a by-law
increasing the aggregate of the amounts, fixed
by a shareholders by-law, to be paid to the
chairman of the board, the president, vice-
president and other directors as remuneration.
( 2 ) Subject to subsection (3), where a by-
law made under subsection (1) provides for a
matter that the shareholders may provide for
by by-law, the by-law, to the extent that it so
provides, ceases to have effect at the conclusion
of the annual general meeting of the
shareholders next ensuing after it is made
unless it is confirmed by the shareholders.
(3) Where a special general meeting, called
for the purpose of confirming a by-law made
under subsection (1) or called for that and
any other purpose, is held before the next
following annual general meeting, the by-law
ceases to have effect at the conclusion of the
special general meeting unless it is confirmed
at that special general meeting, and subsection
(2) does not apply to a by-law that is so
confirmed.
(4) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), until
it is otherwise prescribed by by-law under this
Act, the by-laws made by the directors
concerning any matter with respect to which
they may make by-laws under this section, in
force on the 1st day of May 1967, remain in
force. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 20.
2 1. (1) The directors may appoint as many
officers and employees as they consider
necessary for carrying on the business of the
bank, and may authorize any officer of the
bank to make such of these appointments as
they may deem expedient.
(2) Officers and employees appointed under
subsection (1) may be paid such salaries and
allowances as the directors or appointing
officer determine. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 21.
Meetings of Shareholders

**22.** A special general meeting of the
shareholders of the bank may be called at
any time by
  * (_a_) the directors of the bank or any four of
them, or
(6) any number not less than twenty-five of
the shareholders, acting by themselves or
by their proxies, who are together owners
of at least one-tenth of the paid-up capital
stock of the bank ;
and the directors or shareholders shall give
public notice of the meeting at least six weeks
prior thereto, specifying therein the object of
the meeting, and the meeting shall be held at
the place where the head office of the bank is
situated. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 22.

**23.** (1) Subject to this Act, every share
holder has, on all occasions on which the
votes of the shareholders are taken, one vote
for each share held by him for at least ninety
immediately before the time of the
(2) In all cases where the votes of the
are taken, the voting shall be by
(3) All questions proposed for the consider
ation of the shareholders shall be determined
by a majority of the votes of the shareholders
present or represented by proxy.
(4) The chairman elected to preside at any
meeting of the shareholders shall vote as a
shareholder only, unless there is a tie, in
which case, except as to the election of a
director, he has a casting vote.
(5) Subject to this Act, where two or more
persons are joint holders of shares, any one of
the joint holders may be authorized, by power
of attorney from the other joint holder or
holders, or a majority of them, to represent
the shares and to vote accordingly.
(6) Shareholders may vote by proxy, but no
person other than a shareholder eligible to
vote shall be permitted to vote or act as
proxy.
(7) Neither the general manager nor any
officer or employee subordinate to the general
manager shall hold a proxy for the purpose
of voting.
(8) No shareholder shall vote, either in
person or by proxy, on any question proposed
for the consideration of the shareholders of
the bank at any meeting of the shareholders,
or in any case in which the votes of the
shareholders of the bank are taken, unless he
has paid all calls made by the directors that
are then due and payable. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 23.

## CAPITAL STOCK

**24.** (1) Subject to section 25, the authorized
capital stock of The Montreal City and
District Savings Bank is three million dollars
divided into shares of one dollar each.
of ten shares of one dollar each. 1966-
c. 93, s. 24.

**25.** (1) The authorized capital stock of the
may be increased by by-law of the
(2) No by-law under this section comes into
operation or has force or effect until approved
by the Governor in Council.
(3) No approval shall be given by the
Governor in Council under subsection (2)
unless application therefor is made within
three months from the time of the passing of
the by-law, nor unless it appears to the
satisfaction of the Governor in Council that
a copy of the by-law, together with notice of
intention to apply for the approval, has been
published for at least four weeks in the
Canada Gazette, and in one or more newspa
pers published at the place where the head
office of the bank is situated.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prevent the Governor in Council from
refusing to approve a by-law under this
section. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 25.

**26.** Any of the original unsubscribed capi
tal stock or of the increased capital stock shall
be offered to the persons who are shareholders
according to the books of the bank, pro rata,
at such price not less than par, at such time
and on such terms as the directors determine,
except that
  * (_a_) the price of the stock shall be paid in
money;
(6) payment shall not be required in greater
amounts or at shorter intervals than ten per
cent of the price every thirty days ;
  * (_c_) no share need be offered to a shareholder
whose recorded address is in a country
outside Canada, where, to the knowledge
of the directors, the offer ought not to be
made unless the appropriate authority in
that country is furnished with information
other than that contained in the statement
submitted to the shareholders at the last
annual general meeting and in any return
may in lieu of such an offer provide for
him such rights in respect of shares as the
directors determine, and such offers of
shares or provision of rights may, subject to
paragraphs (a), (6), (d) and (e), be on terms
different except as to price from those of
the offer to or provision for shareholders
whose recorded addresses are elsewhere than
in such country ;
  * (_d_) no share shall be offered to a shareholder
from whom a subscription for a share could
not, by reason of paragraph 46(4)(a) or (6),
be accepted by the bank ; and
  * (_e_) no fraction of a share shall be offered
and no rights in respect of a fraction of a
share shall be provided. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 26.

**27.** The offer shall be mailed to the
shareholder at his recorded address and the
directors shall, in the offer, fix a date, not
earlier than the thirtieth day after the day
on which the offer is mailed, by which the
offer is to be accepted by the shareholder or,
unless the directors have prohibited the
transfer of the rights under the offer, by any
transferee thereof. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 27.

**28.** Where, under section 26,
  * (_a_) shares are offered but not subscribed for
or rights in respect of shares are provided
but not exercised, or
(6) shares or fractions of shares are not
offered and rights in respect thereof are not
provided,
the shares may, subject to this Act, be disposed
of in such manner and on such terms as the
directors determine, except that no share shall
be sold at less than par. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 28.

**29.** If the average net proceeds per share
of the disposal of shares under section 28
exceeds the price per share fixed by the
directors under section 26, there shall be paid,
  * (_a_) to each shareholder to whom shares were
offered but not subscribed for or for whom
rights in respect of shares were provided
but not exercised, the amount of such excess
multiplied by the number of such shares ;
(6) to each shareholder to whom shares were
not offered by reason of paragraph 26(c) or
  * (_d_) and for whom rights in respect of shares
were not provided in lieu thereof, the
amount of such excess multiplied by the
number of such shares ; and
  * (_c_) to each shareholder to whom a fraction
of a share was not offered and for whom
rights in respect of a fraction of a share
were not provided by reason of paragraph
26(e), the amount of such excess multiplied
by such fraction. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 29.

**30.** For the purpose of disposing of shares
under section 26, 28 or 29, the directors shall
cause stock books to be opened at the head
office of the bank and elsewhere in their
discretion and each person acquiring shares
who, prior to the time of acquisition, is not a
shareholder shall, at that time, give his post
office address and this shall appear in the
stock books in connection with the name of
the person and the number of shares acquired.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 30.

## SHARES AND CALLS

**31.** The shares of the capital stock of the
bank are personal property. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 31.

**32.** (1) The directors may make such calls
of money from the several shareholders for
the time being, upon the amounts remaining
unpaid in respect of the shares subscribed for
by them respectively, as they find necessary.
(2) Any number of calls may be made by
one resolution.
(3) Calls shall be payable at intervals of
not less than thirty days.
(4) Notice of calls shall be given to the
shareholders.
(5) Subject to this Act, no call shall exceed
ten percent of the amount subscribed in
respect of each share. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 32.

**33.** (1) Where any part of the paid-up
is lost, the directors shall, if all the
stock is not paid up, forthwith
calls upon the shareholders in an
amount equal to the amount of the loss or
the amount of the subscription price of the
stock remaining unpaid, whichever is the
lesser.
(2) The directors shall forthwith report to
the Minister the amount of any loss to which
this section refers and the calls, if any, made
in respect thereof. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 33.

**34.** In case of the non-payment of a call or
of an instalment under a subscription for
shares, the directors may, in the name of the
bank, sue for and recover the amount of the
call or instalment, or may declare the shares
in respect of which default is made to be
forfeited to the bank in accordance with
section 35. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 34.

**35.** (1) Where a shareholder fails to pay
an instalment or call upon his shares of the
capital stock of the bank when it is due, and
thereafter fails to make the payment on or
before a day fixed in a notice directed to him
in accordance with the by-laws or a resolution
of the directors, the directors may, by
resolution, declare forfeited the shares in
respect of which the payment is in default.
(2) Shares declared forfeited under subsec
tion (1) become, by such declaration, the
property of the bank, and the directors shall,
before the expiry of six months from the
declaration, sell them to such persons, in such
manner and on such terms as they may
determine.
(3) Notwithstanding the forfeiture of shares
under this section, the shareholder who
immediately prior to the forfeiture was the
holder of the shares, continues to be liable to
the bank for the amount of the subscription
price of the shares that was unpaid at the
time of forfeiture, less such amounts as are
subsequently received by the bank in respect
of the shares. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 35.

**36.** In any action brought to recover any
money due on any instalment or call, it is not
necessary to set forth the special matter in
the declaration or statement of claim, but it
is sufficient to allege that the defendant is
the holder of one share or more, as the case
may be, of the capital stock of the bank, and
that he is indebted to the bank for instalments
or calls upon such share or shares, in the sum
to which the instalments or calls amount, as
the case may be, stating the amount and
number of the instalments or calls, and it is
not necessary, in any such action, to prove
the appointment of the directors. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 36.

## TRANSFER AND TRANSMISSION OF SHARES

**37.** (1) Shares of the capital stock of the
bank are transferable in such manner and
subject to such conditions as are prescribed by
this Act or by by-law.
(2) No fraction of a share is transferable.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 37.

**38.** (1) The bank shall keep in Canada a
register of shareholders recording the names
and post office addresses of its shareholders
and the number of shares held by each.
(2) The bank shall keep a register or
registers of transfers in which transfers of
shares may be made or recorded and trans
missions of shares may be recorded in
accordance with such provisions in respect
thereof as the directors may see fit to make.
(3) The bank shall keep on record at each
place where a register of transfers of the bank
is kept, an extract from the register of
shareholders showing, as at a date not more
than four months earlier,
  * (_a_) the name of each shareholder who holds
shares of the capital stock of the bank
having an aggregate par value of more than
five thousand dollars ;
(6) the place of the recorded address of
each such shareholder; and
  * (_c_) the number of shares held by him.
(4) A register of transfers and an extract
from the register of shareholders referred to
in subsection (3) may, during banking hours,
be inspected by any shareholder or by his
representative authorized in writing.
(5) The directors may discontinue any
of transfers, but there shall be at least
one register of transfers in Canada.
(6) The directors may appoint agents for
the keeping of the register of shareholders
and any register of transfers and the making
of entries therein. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 38.

**39.** Unless otherwise provided by by-law,
no transfer of shares of the capital stock of
the bank is valid unless
  * (_a_) it is made in a register of transfers of
the bank, and
(6) the person making the transfer has, if
required by the bank, previously discharged
all his debts and liabilities to the bank that
exceed in amount the then market value of
the remaining shares, if any, belonging to
such person. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 39.

**40.** (1) Unless under the by-laws of the
bank it is unnecessary that transfers of shares
of its capital stock be made in the books of
the bank, all sales or transfers of shares, and
all contracts and agreements in respect thereof,
made or purporting to be made, are void if
the person making the sale or transfer, or the
person in whose name or on whose behalf the
sale or transfer is made, at the time of the
sale or transfer
  * (_a_) is not the registered owner in the books
of the bank of the share or shares so sold or
transferred, or intended or purporting to be
sold or transferred, or
(6) has not the registered owner s assent to
the sale or transfer.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) affects the
rights and remedies, under any contract of
sale that does not comply with the conditions
and requirements mentioned in that subsec
tion, of any purchaser who has no knowledge
of the non-compliance. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 40.

**41.** (1) Where under the by-laws of the
bank it is unnecessary that transfers of shares
of its capital stock be made in the books of
the bank, no transfer of shares is, until it has
been duly recorded in a register of transfers
absolute, of rendering any transferee jointly
and severally liable with the transferor to the
bank and its creditors.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the
delivery of a certificate for fully paid shares
the transfer of which need not be made in the
books of the bank, with a duly executed
transfer endorsed thereon or delivered there
with, constitutes a valid transfer of the shares
comprised therein, if the shares are listed on
any recognized stock exchange at the time of
the delivery, but, until the transfer of the
shares has been duly recorded in a register of
transfers of the bank, the bank shall treat the
registered holder of the shares as being solely
entitled to receive notice of and to vote at
meetings of shareholders and to receive any
payment in respect of the shares whether by
way of dividend or otherwise. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 41.

**42.** (1) When a share of the capital stock
of the bank has been sold under a writ of
execution or under the decree, order or
judgment of a court, the transfer of the share
from the registered holder thereof to the
purchaser at the sale shall be recorded in a
register of transfers of the bank but only after
receipt by the bank of an attested copy of the
writ, decree, order or judgment bearing a
certificate signed by the officer who conducted
the sale certifying to whom the sale was made,
or other evidence satisfactory to the bank of
the sale and the identity of the purchaser,
and after the discharge of all debts and
liabilities to the bank of the registered holder
of the share and of all liens thereon in favour
of the bank and, where under the by-laws of
the bank it is unnecessary that transfers of
shares of its capital stock be made in the
books of the bank, after surrender to the bank
of the certificate for the share.
(2) Where it is necessary that transfers of
of its capital stock be made in the
of the bank, a transfer recorded in
with subsection (1) shall have the
effect as though it were a valid transfer
made in the books of the bank by the
registered holder of the share. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 42.

**43.** (i) Where the transmission of a share
of tne capital stock of the bank takes place
by operation of law otherwise than because of
the death of a shareholder, the bank shall be
furnished with an affidavit or declaration in
writing in form satisfactory to it signed by or
on behalf of a person claiming under the
transmission stating the nature and effect of
the transmission together with any corrobora
tive evidence that the bank may request, and
where under the by-laws of the bank it is
unnecessary that transfers of shares of its
capital stock be made in the books of the
bank, with the certificate for the share, and
thereupon the transmission shall be recorded
in a register of transfers of the bank.
(2) Until the transmission has been recorded
in a register of transfers of the bank, no
person claiming a share by virtue thereof is
entitled to receive notice of or vote at
meetings of shareholders or to receive any
payment in respect of the share whether by
way of dividend or otherwise. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 43.

**44.** (1) Where the transmission of a share
of the capital stock of the bank takes place
because of the death of a shareholder, the
delivery to the bank
  * (_a_) of an affidavit or declaration in writing
in form satisfactory to the bank, signed by
or on behalf of a person claiming by virtue
of the transmission, stating the nature and
effect of the transmission,
  * (_b_) when the claim is based on
  * (_i_) a will or other testamentary instrument
or on a grant of probate thereof or on
such a grant and letters testamentary or
other document of like import or on a
grant of letters of administration or other
document of like import, purporting to
be issued by any court or authority in
Canada or elsewhere, of an authenticated
copy or certificate thereof under the seal
of the court or authority without proof of
the authenticity of the seal or other proof,
or
  * (_ii_) a notarial will, of an authenticated
copy thereof, and
  * (_c_) if under the by-laws of the bank it is
unnecessary that transfers of shares of its
capital stock be made in the books of the
bank, of the certificate for the share,
is sufficient justification and authority for
paying any dividend and for recording and
giving effect to the transmission in accordance
with the claim ; but nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prevent the bank from
refusing to record or give effect to a
transmission until there has been delivered to
the bank such documentary or other evidence
of or in connection with the transmission as
it may deem requisite.
(2) Until the transmission has been recorded
in a register of transfers of the bank, no
person claiming a share by virtue thereof is
entitled to receive notice of or vote at
meetings of shareholders or to receive any
payment in respect of the share whether by
way of dividend or otherwise. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 44.

**45.** (1) In this section and sections 46 to
49,
"agent" means
  * (_a_) in relation to Her Majesty in right of
Canada or in right of a province, any agent
of Her Majesty in either such right and
includes a municipal or public body empow
ered to perform a function of government
in Canada or any corporation empowered
to perform a function or duty on behalf of
Her Majesty in either such right, but does
not include an official or corporation
performing a function or duty in connection
with
  * (_i_) the administration or management of
the estate or property of an individual,
or
  * (_ii_) the administration, management or
investment of a fund established to
provide compensation, hospitalization,
medical care, annuity, pension or similar
benefits to particular classes of individu
als, or moneys derived from such a fund,
and
  * (_b_) in relation to the government of a
foreign state or any political subdivision
thereof, a person empowered to perform a
function or duty on behalf of the govern
ment of a foreign state or any political
subdivision thereof other than a function
or duty in connection with the administra
tion or management of the estate or
property of an individual ;
"corporation" includes an association, part
nership or other organization ;
"non-resident" means
  * (_a_) an individual who is not ordinarily
resident in Canada,
(6) a corporation incorporated, formed or
otherwise organized, elsewhere than in
Canada,
  * (_c_) the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof, or an agent of
either,
  * (_d_) a corporation that is controlled directly
or indirectly by non-residents as defined in
any of paragraphs (a) to (c),
  * (_e_) a trust
  * (_i_) established by a non-resident as
defined in any of paragraphs (6) to (d)
other than a trust for the administration
of a pension fund for the benefit of
individuals a majority of whom are
residents, or
  * (_ii_) in which non-residents as defined in
any of paragraphs (a) to (d) have more
than fifty per cent of the beneficial
interest, or
(/) a corporation that is controlled directly
or indirectly by a trust defined in paragraph
  * (_e_) as a non-resident ;
"official or corporation" means an official or
corporation ,. within -^i A the i meaning of t para
graph (a) of the definition "agent" ;
"resident" means an individual, corporation
. . ,
or trust that is not a non-resident.
(2) For the purposes of sections 46 to 49, a
shareholder if
  * (_a_) one shareholder is a corporation of
which the other shareholder is an officer or
director,
(6) one shareholder is a partnership of
which the other shareholder is a partner,
  * (_c_) one shareholder is a corporation that is
controlled directly or indirectly by the other
shareholder,
  * (_d_) both shareholders are corporations and
one shareholder is controlled directly or
indirectly by the same government in
Canada, foreign government or individual
or corporation that controls the other
shareholder,
  * (_e_) both shareholders are members of a
voting trust where the trust relates to shares
of the bank,
  * (_f_) both shareholders are agents of Her
Majesty in right of Canada or officials or
corporations performing on behalf of Her
Majesty in such right a function or duty in
connection with the administration, man
agement or investment of any fund or
moneys referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii)
of the definition "agent" in subsection (1),
  * (_g_) both shareholders are agents of Her
Majesty in right of the same province or
officials or corporations performing on
behalf of Her Majesty in right of that
province a function or duty in connection
with the administration, management or
investment of any fund or moneys referred
to in subparagraph (a)(ii) of the definition
"agent" in subsection (1),
  * (_h_) both shareholders are associated within
the meaning of paragraphs (a) to (g) with
the same shareholder.
(3) For the purposes of this section and
sections 46 to 49, a "shareholder" is a person
who according to the books of the bank is the
holder of one or more shares of the capital
stock of the bank and a reference in sections
46 to 49 to a share being held by or in the
name of any person is a reference to his being
the holder of the share according to the books
of the bank.
(4) For the purposes of sections 46 to 49,
a share of the capital stock of the bank
held jointly and one or more of the joint
thereof is a non-resident, the share is
to be held by a non-resident.
(5) Where after the 30th day of April 1967
a corporation or trust that was at any time a
resident becomes a non-resident, any shares
of the capital stock of the bank acquired by
the corporation or the trust while it was a
resident and held by it while it is a non
resident shall be deemed, for the purposes of
sections 46 and 47, to be shares held by a
resident for the use or benefit of a non
resident.
(6) Notwithstanding subsection (2),
  * (_a_) where one shareholder who is a resident
and who, but for this paragraph, would be
deemed to be associated with another
shareholder submits to the bank a declara
tion stating that none of the shares of the
capital stock of the bank held by him or to
be held by him is or will be, to his
knowledge, held in the right of or for the
use or benefit of himself or any person with
whom, but for this paragraph, he would be
deemed to be associated, neither shareholder
is deemed to be associated with the other
so long as the shares of the capital stock of
the bank from time to time held by the
shareholder who made the declaration are
not held contrary to the statements made
in the declaration ;
(6) two shareholders that are corporations
and at least one of which is a resident shall
not be deemed to be associated with each
other by virtue of paragraph (2)(/i) by reason
only that each is deemed under paragraph
(2)(a) to be associated with the same
shareholder; and
  * (_c_) where it appears from the register of
shareholders of the bank that the total par
value of the shares of the capital stock of
the bank held by a shareholder is not more
than five thousand dollars, he shall not be
deemed to be associated with any other
shareholder and no other shareholder shall
be deemed to be associated with him. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 45.

**46.** (1) The bank shall refuse to allow a
the capital stock of the bank held by non
residents exceeds twenty-five per cent of
the total number of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the transfer
would increase the percentage of such shares
held by non-residents ; or
(6) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the bank held by non
residents is twenty-five per cent or less of
the total number of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the transfer
would cause the total number of such shares
held by non-residents to exceed twenty-five
per cent of the total number of the issued
and outstanding shares of such stock.
(2) The bank shall refuse to allow a transfer
of a share of the capital stock of the bank to
any person, including, without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, an official or
corporation administering, managing or
investing any fund or money referred to in
subparagraph (a)(ii) of the definition "agent"
in subsection 45(1), to be made or recorded in
a register of transfers of the bank
  * (_a_) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the bank held by such
person and by other shareholders associated
with him, if any, exceeds ten per cent of
the total number of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the transfer
would increase the percentage of such shares
held by such person and by other share
holders associated with him, if any; or
(6) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the bank held by such
person and by other shareholders associated
with him, if any, is ten per cent or less of
the total number of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the transfer
would cause the total number of such shares
held by such person and by other share
holders associated with him, if any, to
exceed ten per cent of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stocks.
(3) The bank shall refuse to allow a transfer
a share of the capital stock of the bank to
  * (_a_) Her Majesty in right of Canada or in
right of a province or an agent of Her
Majesty in either such right, or
  * (_b_) the government of a foreign state or
any political subdivision thereof or an agent
of the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof,
to be made or recorded in a register of
transfers of the bank.
(4) The bank shall not accept a subscription
for a share of the capital stock of the bank
  * (_a_) by Her Majesty in right of Canada or
in right of a province or an agent of Her
Majesty in either such right or by the
government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof or an agent of
the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof,
  * (_b_) by any person if, at the time the share
is subscribed for, the total number of shares
of the capital stock of the bank held by
such person and by other shareholders
associated with him, if any, exceeds ten per
cent of the total number of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, or
  * (_c_) except as otherwise provided in subsec
tion (5), in other circumstances where if the
subscription were a transfer of the share the
bank would be required under subsection
(1) or (2) to refuse to allow the transfer to
be made or recorded; but in the case of a
subscription pursuant to an offer under
section 26 the bank may count as shares
issued and outstanding all the shares
included in the offer.
(5) Subject to paragraphs (4)(a) and (b),
where an offer of shares of the capital stock
of the bank is made under section 26, the
bank may accept any subscription
  * (_a_) if the terms of the offer contain
provisions to the effect that in the case of
a share offered to a shareholder whose
recorded address, at the time fixed for
determining the shareholders to whom the
offer is made, is a place within Canada and
who is not at that time, to the knowledge
of the bank, a non-resident, a subscription
will not be accepted if the share is to be
recorded in the name of a non-resident,
(6) if the subscription is accompanied by a
declaration by the subscriber
  * (_i_) as to whether the person in whose
name the share is to be recorded is a
resident or a non-resident, and
  * (_ii_) to the effect that the total number of
shares of the capital stock of the bank
that will, if the subscription is accepted,
be held by such person and by other
shareholders associated with him, if any,
will not exceed ten per cent of the total
number of the shares of the capital stock
of the bank that will be issued and
outstanding on the issue of all shares
included in the offer, and
  * (_c_) if, on the basis of such declaration, the
acceptance of the subscription is not
contrary to the terms of the offer.
(6) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2),
the bank may allow a transfer of any share of
the capital stock of the bank to be made or
recorded in a register of transfers where the
transfer is from a resident to a non-resident
and it is shown to the bank on evidence
satisfactory to it that the share was on the
22nd day of September 1964 held by the
resident in the right of or for the use or
benefit of the nonresident.
(7) Default in complying with the provisions
of this section does not affect the validity of
a transfer of a share of the capital stock of
the bank that has been made or recorded in a
register of transfers of the bank or the validity
of the acceptance of a subscription for a share
of the capital stock of the bank. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 46.

**47.** (1) Notwithstanding section 23, and
except as provided in section 49, where a
resident holds shares of the capital stock of
the bank in the right of or for the use or
benefit of a non-resident, the resident shall
not, in person or by proxy, exercise the voting
pertaining to those shares.
(2) Notwithstanding section 23, and except
provided in section 49, where the total of
  * (_a_) the number of shares of the capital stock
of the bank held in the name or right of or
for the use or benefit of a person, and
(6) the number of shares of the capital stock
of the bank held in the name or right of or
for the use or benefit of
  * (_i_) any shareholders associated with the
person mentioned in paragraph (a), or
  * (_ii_) any other person who would be
deemed under subsection 45(2) to be
associated with the person mentioned in
paragraph (a), if both he and such other
person were shareholders,
exceeds ten per cent of the issued and
outstanding shares of such stock,
  * (_c_) no person shall, in person or by proxy,
exercise the voting rights pertaining to any
of the shares referred to in paragraph (a)
that are held in the name of a resident, and
  * (_d_) no person shall, in person or as proxy,
exercise the voting rights pertaining to any
of the shares referred to in paragraph (a)
that are held in the name of a non-resident.
(3) Notwithstanding section 23, and except
as provided in section 49, the voting rights
pertaining to any shares of the capital stock
of the bank shall not be exercised when the
shares are held in the name or right of or for
the use or benefit of
  * (_a_) Her Majesty in right of Canada or in
right of a province or an agent of Her
Majesty in either such right,
(6) the government of a foreign state or
any political subdivision thereof or an agent
of the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof, or
  * (_c_) an official or corporation administering,
managing or investing any fund or moneys
referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii) of the
definition "agent" in subsection 45(1).
(4) Where it appears from the register of
gnareno jd ers o f bank that the total par
value of the shares of the capital stock of the
and for his own use and benefit, unless the
knowledge of the person acting as proxy is to
the contrary.
(5) If any provision of this section is
contravened at a general meeting of the
shareholders of the bank, no proceeding,
matter or thing at that meeting is void by
reason only of such contravention, but any
such proceeding, matter or thing is, at any
time within nine months from the day of
commencement of the general meeting at
which the contravention occurred, voidable at
the option of the shareholders by a resolution
passed at a special general meeting of the
shareholders. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 47.

**48.** (1) The directors may make such by
laws as they deem necessary to carry out the
intent of sections 45 to 49 and in particular,
but without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, the directors may make by-laws
  * (_o_) requiring any person in whose name a
share of the capital stock of the bank is
held to submit a declaration
  * (_i_) with respect to the ownership of such
share,
  * (_ii_) with respect to the place in which the
shareholder and any person in whose
right or for whose use or benefit the share
is held are ordinarily resident,
  * (_iii_) whether the shareholder is associated
with any other shareholder, and
  * (_iv_) with respect to such other matters as
the directors may deem relevant for the
purposes of sections 45 to 49 ;
(6) requiring any person desiring to have a
transfer of a share to him made or recorded
in a register of transfers of the bank or
desiring to subscribe for a share of the
capital stock of the bank to submit such a
declaration as may be required pursuant to
this section in the case of a shareholder;
and
  * (_c_) providing for the determination of the
circumstances in which any declarations
shall be required, their form and the times
at which they are to be submitted.
(2) Where pursuant to any by-law made
under subsection (1) any declaration is
required to be submitted by any shareholder
person in respect of the transfer of or
subscription for any share, the bank may
refuse to allow such transfer to be made or
recorded in a register of transfers of the bank
or to accept such subscription without the
submission of the required declaration.
(3) The bank and any person who is a
director, officer, employee or agent of the
bank, may rely upon any information con
tained in a declaration required by the bank
pursuant to this section or any information
otherwise acquired in respect of any matter
that might be the subject of such a declaration ;
and no action lies against the bank or any
such person for anything done or omitted in
good faith in reliance upon any such
information.
(4) Where for any of the purposes of section
4 6 tne bank requires that the total number of
shares of the capital stock of the bank held
by non-residents be established, the bank may
calculate the total number of such shares held
by non-residents to be the total of
  * (_a_) the number of shares held by all
shareholders whose recorded addresses are
places outside Canada ; and
(6) the number of shares held by all
shareholders each of whose aggregate
individual holdings of such shares has a par
value of more than five thousand dollars
and whose recorded addresses are places
within Canada but who to the knowledge
of the bank are non-residents ;
and such calculation may be made as of a
date not earlier than the 1st day of May 1967
or four months before the day on which the
calculation is made, whichever is the later
date.
(5) Where by any calculation made under
subsection (4) the total number of shares held
by non-residents is under twenty-five per cent
of the total issued and outstanding shares of
the capital stock of the bank, the number of
shares the transfer of which by residents to
non-residents the bank may allow to be made
or recorded in the registers of transfers of the
shall be so limited as not to increase the
total number of shares held by non-residents
more than twenty-five per cent of the total
issued and outstanding shares of the capital
stock of the bank.
(6) Notwithstanding subsections 46(1) and
(2), where in the case of a transfer of any
shares of the capital stock of the bank to a
transferee it appears that
  * (_a_) the aggregate par value of all shares of
the capital stock of the bank held by the
transferee as shown by the register of
shareholders of the bank at a date not more
than four months earlier is not more than
five thousand dollars, and
(6) the aggregate par value of the shares
included in the transfer and any shares
acquired by the transferee after the date
mentioned in paragraph (a) and still held
by him as shown by the register of transfers
of the bank in which it is sought to have
the transfer made or recorded is not more
than five thousand dollars,
the bank is entitled to assume that the
transferee is not and will not be associated
with any other shareholder and, unless the
address to be recorded in the register of
shareholders of the bank for the transferee is
a place outside Canada, that he is a resident.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 48.

**49.** (1) In this section
"associates of the non-resident" means, with
reference to any particular day,
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
non-resident on that day, and
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
45(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat
ed with the non-resident on that day if
both he and such persons were shareholders ;
"associates of the resident" means, with
reference to any particular day,
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
resident on that day, and
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
45(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat
ed with the resident on that day if both he
and such persons were shareholders ;
"prescribed day" means the 17th day of
February 1965 ;
"shares held by or for the non-resident and
associates" means, with reference to any
particular day, the aggregate number of
right of or for the use or benefit of the non^
resident and associates of the non-resident
on that day ;
"shares held by or for the resident and
associates" means, with reference to any
particular day, the aggregate number of
shares held on that dav in the name r
r ig nt f or f r the use or benefit of the
resident and associates of the resident on
that day.
(2) Where at the commencement of the
prescribed day the number of shares of the
capital stock of the bank held in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of a resident
together with the number of such shares, if
any, held at the commencement of that day
in the name or right of or for the use or
benefit of any associates of the resident
exceeded ten per cent of the number of shares
of the capital stock of the bank at that time
issued and outstanding, the voting rights
pertaining to the shares held in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of the
resident may, notwithstanding subsection
47(2), be exercised, in person or by proxy, so
long as the percentage of such shares held by
or for the resident and associates does not
exceed either the percentage of such shares
held by or for the resident and associates at
the commencement of the prescribed day or
the smallest percentage of such shares held
by or for the resident and associates on any
subsequent day ; but this subsection shall not
be construed to prohibit the exercise of voting
rights in circumstances where section 47 does
not apply.
^ Where on the 22nd dav of September
1964 the number of shares of the capital stock
of the bank held in the name or right of or
for the uge of b ene fi t O f a non-resident
together with the number of such shares, if
any, held on that day in the name or right of
or for the use or benefit of any associates of
the non-resident exceeded ten per cent of the
number of shares of the capital stock of the
bank at that time issued and outstanding, the
voting rights pertaining to the shares held in
the name or right of or for the use or benefit
of the non-resident may, notwithstanding
47(2), be exercised, in person or by
so long as the percentage of such shares
by or for the non-resident and associates
does not exceed either the percentage of such
held by or for the non-resident and
associates on the 22nd day of September 1964
or the smallest percentage of such shares held
by or for the non-resident and associates on
any subsequent day ; but this subsection shall
not be construed to prohibit the exercise of
voting rights in circumstances where section
47 does not apply.
(4) Notwithstanding subsections 46(2) and
(3), the bank may allow a transfer of a share
of the capital stock of the bank to be made or
recorded in a register of transfers of the bank
where the transfer is to
  * (_a_) Her Majesty in right of Canada or in
right of a province or an agent of Her
Majesty in either such right,
(6) the government of a foreign state or
any political subdivision thereof or an agent
of the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof, or
  * (_c_) a resident,
if it is shown to the bank on evidence
satisfactory to it that the share was at the
commencement of the prescribed day held in
the right of or for the use or benefit of the
transferee.
(5) If, at any time after the 22nd day of
September 1964 and before the 1st day of
May 1967, the bank allowed to be made or
recor d eci i n a register of transfers of the bank
a transfer of any share of the capital stock of
the bank to a non-resident that it would have
been required to refuse under section 46 had
that section come into force on the 23rd day
of September 1964, no person shall, in person
or as proxy, exercise the voting rights
pertaining to such share until such time as
the share is transferred to a resident, unless
  * (_a_) the total par value of all shares of the
capital stock of the bank held by the non
resident is not more than five thousand
dollars, or
(6) the percentage of the shares of the
capital stock of the bank held by non-
residents on the 1st day of May 1967 does
not exceed
  * (_i_) twenty-five per cent, or
  * (_ii_) the percentage of such shares held by
non-residents on the 22nd day of Septem
ber 1964 if such percentage was on that
day greater than twenty-five per cent,
and the total number of such shares held
by or for the non-resident and associates
does not exceed ten per cent of the total
number of the issued and outstanding shares
of the capital stock of the bank ;
but nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to permit any person to exercise
the voting rights pertaining to a share of the
capital stock of the bank that is held in the
name of the government of a foreign state or
any political subdivision thereof or an agent
of the government of a foreign state or any
political subdivision thereof, if the transfer of
the share to the holder was made or recorded
in a register of transfers of the bank on or
after the prescribed day.
  * (_g_) Where at the commencement of the
prescribed day any share of the capital stock
of the bank was held in the name or right of
or for the use or benefit of
  * (_a_) Her Majesty in right of Canada or in
right of a province or an agent of Her
Majesty in either such right, or
(6) an official or corporation administering,
managing or investing any fund or moneys
referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii) of the
definition "agent" in subsection 45(1),
the voting rights pertaining to the share so
held may be exercised, in person or by proxy,
so long as the share is held in such name or
right or for such use or benefit.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (5), the
total number of snares of the capital stock of
the bank held by non-residents on the 22nd
day of September 1964 or on any day
thereafter to and including the 1st day of
May 1967 may be calculated, in respect of
any of those days, in the same manner as the
total number of such shares may be calculated
under subsection 48(4). 1966-67, c. 93, s. 49.

## SHARES SUBJECT TO TRUSTS

**50.** The bank is not bound to see to the
execution of any trust, whether express,
its capital stock is subject. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 50.
5 1. Except only in the case of a claim
made by some other person in the manner
referred to in paragraph 83(6), the receipt of
the person in whose name any share stands in
the books of the bank or, if it stands in the
names of more persons than one, the receipt
of one of those persons is a sufficient discharge
to the bank for any dividend or any other
sum of money payable in respect of the share,
and the bank is not bound to see to the
application of the money paid upon the
receipt, whether given by one of those persons
or all of them. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 51.

**52.** (i) No person holding shares of the
capital stock of the bank as executor,
administrator, guardian, trustee, tutor or
curator
  * (_a_) of or for any estate, trust or person
named in the books of the bank as being
represented by him, or
(6) if the will or other instrument under or
by virtue of which the shares are so held is
named in the books of the bank in
connection with such holding,
is personally subject to any liability as a
shareholder for unpaid subscriptions for
shares ; but the estate and funds in his hands
are liable in like manner and to the same
extent as the testator, intestate, ward or
person interested in the estate and funds
would be, if living and competent to hold the
shares in his own name.
(2) Where the trust is for an individual or
corporation, the individual or corporation is
also liable as a shareholder to the extent of
his or its respective interest in the shares.
(3) Where the estate, trust or person so
represented, or will or other instrument, is not
named in the books of the bank, the executor,
administrator, guardian, trustee, tutor or
is personally liable in respect of the
as if he held them in his own name as
thereof. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 52.

## ANNUAL AND OTHER STATEMENTS

**53.** (1) The financial year of the bank shall
on the expiration of the 31st day of
October in each year.
(2) At every annual general meeting of the
shareholders, the outgoing directors shall
submit a statement (hereinafter called the
"annual statement"), which shall present
fairly the financial position of the bank for
the financial year immediately preceding the
meeting, and shall contain
  * (_a_) a statement of assets and liabilities of
the bank as at the end of the financial year,
showing the information in the form
specified in Schedule A and such additional
information and particulars as in the
opinion of the directors are necessary to
present fairly the financial position of the
bank;
  * (_b_) a statement of revenue, expenses and
undivided profits of the bank for the
financial year, showing the information in
the form specified in Schedule B and such
additional information and particulars as
in the opinion of the directors are necessary
to present fairly the balance available for
distribution of profits earned in the financial
year; and
  * (_c_) a statement of accumulated appropria
tions for losses of the bank for the financial
year, showing the information in the form
specified in Schedule C and such additional
information and particulars as in the
opinion of the directors are necessary to
present fairly the amount of appropriations
available to meet losses other than those
for which specific provisions have been
made.
(3) The annual statement shall be signed
  * (_a_) on behalf of the board of directors, by
the president or a vice-president or two
other directors, and
  * (_b_) by the general manager or a person duly
authorized to sign in the place of the
general manager.
(4) The Governor in Council may amend
Schedules A, B and C. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 53.

**54.** The directors shall, in addition to the
annual statement, submit to the shareholders
such other statements of the affairs of the
bank in such manner and at such times as the
shareholders by by-law require. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 54.

## SHAREHOLDERS AUDIT

**55.** (i) The affairs of the bank shall be
audited by two auditors appointed in accord
ance with this section, each of whom at the
time of his appointment is an accountant who
  * (_a_) is a member in good standing of an
institute or association of accountants
incorporated by or under the authority of
the legislature of the Province of Quebec ;
(6) is ordinarily resident in Canada ; and
  * (_c_) has practised his profession in Canada
continuously during the six consecutive
years immediately preceding his appoint
ment.
(2) The shareholders shall, at each annual
general meeting, appoint two persons having
the qualifications specified in subsection (1),
but not being members of the same firm, to
be the auditors of the bank until the next
ensuing annual general meeting, but no
person shall be so appointed if he or a member
of his firm is a director, officer or employee
of the bank.
(3) The Minister may at any time revoke
the appointment of an auditor by notice in
writing signed by the Minister and sent by
registered mail addressed to the auditor at
his usual place of business and shall at the
same time furnish a copy thereof to the bank.
(4) An auditor ceases to hold office
  * (_a_) on the day on which a notice is mailed
to him under subsection (3), or
(6) if he or a member of his firm becomes a
director, officer or employee of the bank.
(5) When a vacancy occurs in the office of
auditor of a bank, the bank shall forthwith
give notice thereof to the Minister, who shall
appoint a person having the qualifications
specified in subsection (1) to be an auditor of
the bank until the next ensuing annual
auditor and is filled under this section, the
remuneration so fixed shall be divided, in
such manner as the directors determine,
among the person originally appointed or his
legal representative, the continuing auditor
and the person appointed to fill the vacancy.
(7) The auditors of the bank have a right
of access to the books, minutes, accounts, cash,
securities, documents and vouchers of the
bank and any security held by the bank, and
are entitled to require such information and
explanations as they deem necessary for the
performance of their duties as auditors.
(8) In addition to any other audit and
report required by this section the auditors
shall, at least once during their term of office,
check the cash and verify the securities of the
bank at the head office of the bank and, if
they deem it advisable, at any branch of the
bank.
(9) The Minister may require that the
auditors of the bank shall report to him upon
the adequacy of the procedure adopted by
the bank for the safety of its creditors and
shareholders, and as to the sufficiency of their
own procedure in auditing the affairs of the
bank.
(jQ) The Minister may enlarge or extend
the scope of the audit or direct any other or
particular examination to be made or proce
dure established in the particular case as, in
his opinion, the public interest may require,
and the bank shall, in respect thereof, pay to
the auditor such remuneration, in addition to
that fixed under subsection (6), as the Minister
allows.
(11) The auditors shall make a report to
(12) The auditors report shall state whether,
in their opinion, the statements referred to in
the report present fairly the financial position
of the bank as at the end of the financial
year, its revenue, expenses and undivided
profits for the year and its accumulated
appropriations for the year, and shall include
such remarks as they consider necessary in
any case where
  * (_a_) they have not obtained all the informa^
tion and explanations that they have
required ;
  * (_b_) the transactions of the bank that have
come under their notice have not, in their
opinion, been within the powers of the
bank; or
  * (_c_) the statements referred to in their report
are not as shown by the books of the bank.
(13) The auditors report shall be attached
to the annual statement submitted by the
directors to the shareholders at the annual
general meeting.
(14) At or after the annual general meeting
any shareholder is entitled, on application, to
be furnished by the directors with a copy of
the statement and report submitted to the
meeting, and a copy thereof shall be forwarded
to the Minister within four weeks after the
meeting. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 55.
INSPECTION

**56.** (1) The Inspector, from time to time,
but not less frequently than once in each
calendar year, shall make or cause to be made
an examination and inquiry into the affairs
or business of the bank and report thereon to
the Minister, and for such purposes the
Inspector has and may exercise and perform
all the rights, powers and duties given to him
under the Bank Act.
(2) In addition to any report under subsec
tion (1) the Inspector shall annually certify
to the Minister and to the Governor of the
Bank of Canada whether in his opinion the
return that has been submitted by the bank
under section 91 is correct.
(3) The Inspector has all the powers
conferred upon a commissioner appointed
under Part II of the Inquiries Act for the
of obtaining evidence under oath,
may delegate such powers as occasion
require. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 56.

**57.** All salaries, remuneration and other
incidental to carrying out section 56
be paid out of such moneys as may be
appropriated by Parliament therefor, and the
Consolidated Revenue Fund shall be recouped
after the end of each calendar year for such
outlay by an assessment upon the bank based
upon the average total assets of the bank,
respectively, during the year, as shown by the
monthly return made by the bank to the
Minister under section 90, and such assessment
shall be paid by the bank. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 57.

**58.** The Inspector or any other person
appointed or employed under section 64 of
the Bank Act shall not accept or receive,
directly or indirectly, any grant or gratuity
from a bank or from any director, officer or
employee of a bank, and no bank and no
director, officer or employee of a bank shall
make or give any such grant or gratuity. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 58.

**59.** The Inspector or any other person
appointed or employed under section 64 of
the Bank Act or any person to whom any
powers are delegated under subsection 56(3)
shall not disclose to any other person, except
the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Finance
or the Governor of the Bank of Canada, or a
representative of the latter if authorized by
him in writing, any information regarding
the business or affairs of a bank. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 59.

## APPROPRIATIONS FOR LOSSES
6Q. (1) Where in the opinion of the Minister
an amount set aside or reserved by the bank
out of income, either by way of write-down of
the value of assets or appropriation for the
purpose of meeting losses on loans, bad or
doubtful debts, depreciation in the value of
assets other than bank premises or other
is in excess of the reasonable
of the bank having regard to all
circumstances, the Minister shall notify
Minister of National Revenue of the
amount so set aside and of the amount of
such excess.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be
construed to give the Minister any jurisdiction
over the discretion of the directors of the bank
with regard to amounts set aside, reserved or
transferred to any reserve or other account
from income upon which taxes have been
assessed under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada imposing a tax upon or in respect of
income. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 60.

## DIVIDENDS

**61.** (1) Subject to this Act and the by-laws,
the directors of the bank may declare a
dividend of so much of the profits of the bank
as they consider advisable, and shall fix the
day for payment thereof.
(2) The directors shall give public notice of
the payment of a dividend published for at
least four weeks prior to the day fixed for
payment thereof.
(3) A dividend is due and payable on and
after the day fixed for payment thereof at
the head office of the bank and at such other
places as the directors prescribe.
(4) The directors may close the registers of
transfers for a period, not exceeding thirty
days, before the payment of a dividend. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 61.

**62.** (1) No dividend or bonus shall be
declared
  * (_a_) while the paid-up capital of the bank is
impaired, or
(6) if as a result thereof the paid-up capital
of the bank would be impaired.
(2) The directors who knowingly and wil
fully concur in the declaration or making
payable of any dividend or bonus contrary to
subsection (1) are jointly and severally liable
for the amount of such dividend or bonus, as
a debt due by them to the bank.
(3) No division of profits exceeding the rate
eight per cent per annum on the paid-up
the bank unless after making the division the
has a rest account equal to at least thirty
per cent of its paid-up capital stock after
making all necessary provisions for ascertained
and estimated diminution in the value of
assets.
(4) The directors who knowingly and wil
fully concur in any division of profits contrary
to subsection (3) are jointly and severally
liable for the amount so divided, as a debt
due by them to the bank. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 62.

## CASH AND SECONDARY RESERVES

**63.** (1) The bank shall maintain a cash
reserve in the form of notes of the Bank of
Canada and deposits in Canadian currency
with the Bank of Canada and a chartered
bank and such reserve shall be not less on the
average during any month than five per cent
of such of its deposit liabilities as are payable
in Canadian currency.
(2) The bank shall maintain a secondary
reserve in addition to that required by
subsection (1) in the form of
  * (_a_) notes of the Bank of Canada and
deposits in Canadian currency with the
Bank of Canada and a chartered bank ; and
(6) securities issued or guaranteed by
Canada or a province that are payable in
Canadian currency ;
and such reserve shall not be less on the
average during any month than fifteen per
cent of such of its deposit liabilities as are
payable in Canadian currency.
(3) For the purpose of determining the
amount of the reserves required to be
maintained by a bank during any month
  * (_a_) the amount of its deposit liabilities
payable in Canadian currency shall be the
average of those deposit liabilities at the
held by the bank shall be the average
holdings of those notes at the close of
business on Wednesdays in each of the four
consecutive weeks ending with the last
Wednesday but one in the preceding month ;
  * (_c_) the amount of its deposits with the Bank
of Canada and chartered banks shall be the
average amount of those deposits at the
close of business on each juridical day of
the current month ; and
  * (_d_) the amount of the securities issued or
guaranteed by Canada or a province that
are payable in Canadian currency shall be
the average amortized value of those
securities at the close of business on each
juridical day of the current month.
(4) Th e bank shall maintain adequate and
appropriate assets against liabilities payable
in foreign currency. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 63.

## DESTRUCTION OF OLD RECORDS

**64.** (1) Except as provided in subsection
82(4), the bank may destroy books, records,
documents, vouchers, paid instruments and
papers in its possession where they are dated
or were in existence, or contain entries or
writings made, more than fifteen years prior
to the destruction.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3), in
any action or proceeding the liability of the
bank shall be determined by reference only
to evidence of matters that have arisen or
things that have occurred, including books
and records or the portions thereof, and
documents, vouchers, paid instruments and
papers that are dated or came into existence,
or that contain entries or writings made,
during the period of fifteen years immediately
preceding the commencement of the action or
proceeding.
(3) In any action or proceeding to establish
the ownership of shares of capital stock of the
bank, the ownership shall be determined by
reference only to evidence of matters that
have arisen or things that have occurred,
including books and records, or the portions
thereof, and documents, vouchers, paid instru
ments and papers that are dated or came into
existence, or that contain entries or writings
during the period of fifteen years
preceding the commencement of
action or proceeding, excepting the register
shareholders of the bank.
(4) Nothing in subsection (1), (2) or (3)
affects the operation of any statute of
limitation or prescription or the right of the
bank to destroy any books, records, documents,
vouchers, paid instruments or papers not
specified in subsection 82(4) or relieves the
bank from any liability to the Bank of
Canada in respect of any debt or instrument
to which subsection 82(1) applies. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 64.

## BUSINESS AND POWERS
General

**65.** (1) The bank may
  * (_a_) deposit money with the Bank of Canada
and with any chartered bank ;
(6) deposit money with banks outside
Canada, if so authorized by the board of
directors; and
  * (_c_) borrow money from the Bank of Canada
and from any chartered bank and give
security for the repayment thereof.
(2) Except as authorized by or under this
Act the bank shall not, directly or indirectly,
  * (_a_) issue notes of the bank payable to bearer
on demand and intended for circulation ;
(6) deal in goods, wares and merchandise
or engage in any trade or business ;
  * (_c_) lend or invest money or make advances ;
  * (_d_) acquire or deal in shares of the capital
stock of a bank to which this Act applies ;
  * (_e_) acquire or deal in securities, shares,
mortgages, hypothecs or other security ; and
  * (_j_) except with the consent of the Minister,
contribute to any guarantee or pension
fund if any part of the fund has, at any
time after the 30th day of April 1967, been
invested in shares of the capital stock of a
bank to which this Act applies. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 65.
Investments

**66.** The bank may invest in
  * (_a_) securities, payable in Canadian curren
cy, of a corporation incorporated in Canada
none of whose securities are in default in
respect of either principal or interest ;
(6) shares, issued in Canadian currency, of
a corporation incorporated in Canada none
of whose securities are in default in respect
of either principal or interest ; and
  * (_c_) shares of a chartered bank. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 66.

**67.** The bank may, subject to this Act,
invest in
  * (_a_) mortgages and hypothecs upon the
security of which the bank may lend money
and make advances under section 72 ; and
(6) mortgages and hypothecs upon the
security of which the bank may lend money
and make advances under the National
Housing Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 67.
Loans and Advances

**68.** The bank may lend money and make
advances to any person if the bank takes as
security for the repayment of the loan
  * (_a_) any of the securities and shares men
tioned in section 66, the market value of
which, at the time the loan is made, is not
less than the amount of the loan ;
(6) a life insurance policy, the cash surrender
value of which, at the time the loan is
made, is not less than the amount of the
loan; or
  * (_c_) a promissory note endorsed for accept
ance by a chartered bank, the amount of
which, at the time the loan was made, is
not less than the amount of the loan ;
and if the bank takes the security with
to sell it or realize thereon. 1966-67,
93, s. 68.

**69.** The bank may lend money and make
without security to the Government
Canada or a province. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 69.

**70.** The bank may lend money and make
without security
  * (_a_) to a municipal corporation in Canada ;
  * (_b_) to a school corporation in Canada that
derives its revenues from rates or taxes
levied by it or on its behalf ;
  * (_c_) to an ecclesiastical or religious corpora
tion incorporated in Canada ;
  * (_d_) to a fabrique de paroisse that is subject
to the Fabrique Act of the Province of
Quebec ;
  * (_e_) to a corporation incorporated for the
purpose of operating a hospital or sanitari
um in the Province of Quebec ;
  * (_f_) to a corporation incorporated in Canada,
in an amount that, together with the
amount owing by the corporation to the
bank in respect of any other loan under this
section, does not, at the time the loan is
made, exceed the unimpaired paid-up
capital and earned surplus of the corpora
tion, if
  * (_i_) the loan is authorized by resolution of
the board of directors of the bank,
  * (_ii_) the corporation has an unimpaired
paid-up capital and earned surplus in
excess of five hundred thousand dollars,
and
  * (_iii_) the corporation has, in each of its
last five financial years ended less than
one year before the date of the loan, paid
in cash, on all its outstanding capital
stock, a dividend out of income earned in
the year of payment ; or
  * (_g_) to any individual in an amount that,
together with the amount owing by the
individual to the bank in respect of any
other loan under this section, does not, at
the time of the loan, exceed ten thousand
dollars ;
if the aggregate outstanding amount of the
loans made by the bank under this section,
together with the proposed loan, does not
fifteen per cent of its deposit liabilities.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 70.
7 1. The bank may lend money and make
advances under the National Housing Act.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 71.

**72.** (1) The bank may lend money and
make advances on the security of improved
real or immovable property in Canada if
  * (_a_) the loan is authorized by a resolution
of the board of directors of the bank, and
(6) the amount of the loan at the time it is
made does not exceed the lesser of
  * (_i_) seventy-five per cent of the value of
the real or immovable property on which
the security is taken less the outstanding
amount of any mortgage or hypothec
having an equal or prior claim against
the property, and
  * (_ii_) five per cent of the aggregate paid-
up capital and rest account of the bank
and the aggregate amount outstanding of
  * (_c_) loans made by the bank under this
section,
  * (_d_) loans made by the bank under section
71, and
  * (_e_) mortgages and hypothecs invested in by
the bank under section 67,
together with the proposed loan, does not
exceed sixty per cent of its deposit liabilities.
(2) In this section "improved real or
immovable property" means land or immov
able property upon which there is situated a
building that constitutes a permanent
improvement to the property or on which
there is such a building in the process of
construction.
(3) This section does not limit the authority
of the bank to take security on real or
immovable property to secure a balance of
price of real or immovable property sold by
the bank.
(4) This section does not limit the authority
of the bank to acquire from a corporation
securities that are issued or guaranteed by the
corporation and secured on any property
whether in favour of a trustee or otherwise.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 72.
Security

**73.** (1) Securities and shares acquired and
held by the bank as security may, in the case
default in the payment of the loan, advance
debt or in the discharge of the liability for
the securing of which they were so acquired
and held, be dealt with, sold and conveyed in
like manner as and subject to the restrictions
under which a private individual might, in
like circumstances, deal with, sell and convey
them.
(2) The right to deal with and dispose of
securities or shares, as provided in subsection
(1), may be waived or varied by any agreement
between the bank and the person by whom
the security was given. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 73.

**74.** (1) Notwithstanding this Act, the bank
may acquire any of the securities or shares
referred to in section 73 that are held by it as
security.
(2) When the bank acquires securities or
shares in which the bank may not invest
under this Act,
  * (_a_) in the realization of a loan, or
(6) in an exchange or conversion of securities
or shares as a result of reorganization or
amalgamation of a corporation,
the bank shall, within twelve months, sell or
dispose of them.
(3) The Minister may direct that the time
for the sale or disposal of any securities or
shares under this section shall be extended
for a further period or periods not to exceed
a total of two years. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 74.

**75.** (1) Where a debt or liability has been
incurred to the bank in the course of its
business, the bank may subsequently take,
hold and dispose of security of any kind for
such debt or liability upon any real or
personal, immovable or movable property.
(2) The rights, powers and privileges that
the ,, bank , is . by this Act declared to have, or
to have had, in respect of real or immovable
property on which it has taken security, shall
be held and possessed by it in respect of any
personal or movable property on which it has
taken security. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 75.

**76.** The bank may purchase any real or
property offered for sale
  * (_a_) under execution, or in insolvency, or
under the order or decree of a court, or at a
sale for taxes, as belonging to any debtor
to the bank,
(6) by a mortgagee or other encumbrancer,
having priority over a mortgage or other
encumbrance held by the bank, or
  * (_c_) by the bank, under a power of sale given
to it for that purpose, notice of such sale
by auction to the highest bidder having
been first given by advertisement for four
weeks in a newspaper published in the
county or electoral district in which the
property is situated,
in cases in which, under similar circumstances,
an individual could so purchase, without any
restriction as to the value of the property that
it may so purchase, and may acquire title
thereto as any individual, purchasing at a
sheriff s sale or sale for taxes or under a power
of sale, in like circumstances could do, and
may take, have, hold and dispose of the
property so purchased. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 76.

**77.** (1) The bank may acquire and hold an
absolute title in or to real or immovable
property affected by a mortgage or hypothec
securing a loan or advance made by the bank
or a debt or liability to the bank, either by
the obtaining of a release of the equity of
redemption in the mortgaged property, or by
procuring a foreclosure, or by other means
whereby, as between individuals, an equity of
redemption can, by law, be barred, or a
transfer of title to real or immovable property
can, by law, be effected, and may purchase
and acquire any prior mortgage or charge on
such property.
(2) Nothing in any charter, Act or law shall
be construed as ever having been intended to
prevent or as preventing the bank from
acquiring and holding an absolute title to
and in any mortgaged or hypothecated real
or immovable property, whatever the value
thereof, or from exercising or acting upon any
of sale contained in any mortgage
given to or held by the bank, authorizing or
it to sell or convey any property so
1966-67, c. 93, s. 77.
Real Property

**78.** (1) The bank may acquire and hold
real and immovable property for its actual
use and occupation and the management of
its business, and may sell or dispose of it, and
acquire other property in its stead for the
same purpose.
(2) The bank may hold real or immovable
property
  * (_a_) in the case of property acquired or held
for its own use, for a period of seven years
from the day on which it ceases to be
required for its own use, as determined by
the directors, and
(6) in the case of other property, for a
period of twelve years from the day on
which it acquired the property,
and forthwith after the expiry of that period
the bank shall sell or otherwise dispose of the
property absolutely so that the bank no longer
has, directly or indirectly, any interest or
control in respect thereof except by way of
security.
(3) Where the bank fails to dispose of
property in accordance with subsection (2),
the Attorney General of Canada may, upon
such notice as a judge of the Exchequer Court
of Canada may order, apply to a judge of
that Court for an order declaring the property
to be forfeited to Her Majesty in right of
Canada, and the judge may, if he is satisfied
that the bank has not disposed of the property
in accordance with subsection (2), declare the
property forfeited to Her Majesty, except that
  * (_a_) the property shall not be vested in Her
Majesty before the expiry of six calendar
months from the day on which notice of
the application was given to the bank in
accordance with the order of the judge, and
(6) the bank may, at any time before the
property vests in Her Majesty, sell or
otherwise dispose of it as required by
subsection (2) as if no application, order or
declaration had been made. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 78.
Interest and Charges

**79.** The bank may pay any rate of interest
a debt payable by the bank, and the bank
charge any rate of interest or rate of
discount on a loan or advance made by the
bank or on a debt or liability to the bank.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 79(1).

**80.** (1) In subsections (2) to (4)
"cost of borrowing" means, in relation to a
loan or advance,
  * (_a_) the interest or discount thereon, and
  * (_b_) any charges in connection therewith
that are payable by the borrower to the
bank or to any person from whom the bank
receives any part of such charges directly
or indirectly ;
"credit" means an arrangement for obtaining
loans or advances;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations
made under this section.
(2) Where, after the 15th day of October
1967, the bank grants to a person a credit in
respect of loans or advances repayable in
Canada or makes to a person a loan or
advance repayable in Canada, the cost of
borrowing, as calculated and expressed in
accordance with subsection (3), shall be
disclosed by the bank, or otherwise as
prescribed, to such person in the manner
prescribed and at the time when the credit is
granted or the loan or advance is made
otherwise than under a credit, as the case may
be; but this subsection does not apply in
respect of any class of loans or advances that
are prescribed as not being subject to its
provisions.
(3) The cost of borrowing shall be calculated ,
in the manner prescribed, on the basis of all
obligations of the borrower being duly
fulfilled, and shall be expressed as a rate per
annum and, under the circumstances pre
scribed, as an amount in dollars and cents.
(4) The Minister may make regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the manner in which the cost
of borrowing shall be disclosed to a
borrower;
(6) respecting the manner of calculating the
cost of borrowing ;
  * (_c_) respecting the circumstances under
which the cost of borrowing is to be
expressed also as an amount in dollars and
cents;
  * (_d_) specifying any class of loans or advances
that are not to be subject to the provisions
of subsection (2) ; and
  * (_e_) respecting such other matters or things
as may be necessary to carry out the purpose
of this section.
(5) The bank shall not, directly or indirectly,
charge or receive any sum for the keeping of
an account unless the charge is made by
express agreement between the bank and the
customer, nor, except by express agreement
between the bank and the borrower, shall the
making of a loan or advance be subject to a
condition that the borrower maintain a
minimum credit balance with the bank. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 80.

**81.** (1) The bank shall not make a charge
^ or cashing a cheque or other instrument
drawn on the Receiver General or on his
account in the Bank of Canada or in any
chartered bank, or for cashing any other
instrument issued as authority for the pay
ment of money out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund, or in respect of any cheque or
other instrument drawn in favour of the
Receiver General, the Government of Canada
or any department thereof or any public
officer in his capacity as such, and tendered
for deposit to the credit of the Receiver
General.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be
construed to prohibit any arrangement
between the Government of Canada and the
bank concerning interest to be paid on any or
all deposits of the Government of Canada
with the bank. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 81(2)(3).
Unclaimed Balances

**82.** (1) Where
  * (_a_) a debt payable in Canada in Canadian
currency is owing by the bank by reason of
a deposit in respect of which no transaction
has taken place and no statement of account
has been requested or acknowledged by the
creditor during a period of ten years
reckoned
  * (_i_) in the case of a deposit made for a
fixed period, from the day on which the
fixed period terminated, and
  * (_ii_) in the case of any other deposit, from
the day on which the last transaction
took place or a statement of account was
last requested or acknowledged by the
creditor, whichever is later, or
(6) a cheque, draft or bill of exchange
(including an instrument drawn by one
branch of the bank upon another branch of
the bank but not including an instrument
issued in payment of a dividend on the
capital stock of the bank) payable in
Canada in Canadian currency has been
issued, certified or accepted by the bank at
a branch of the bank in Canada and no
payment has been made in respect thereof
for a period of ten years from the date of
issue, certification or acceptance,
the bank shall pay to the Bank of Canada on
a day to be fixed by the Minister an amount
equal to the amount owing by the bank in
respect of the debt or to the amount that
would be owing if the instrument had been
presented for payment, including interest, if
any, in accordance with the terms of the debt
or instrument, and payment accordingly
discharges the bank from all liability in
respect of the debt or instrument.
(2) Where in the opinion of the Minister,
there is doubt as to who is entitled to payment
of a debt or instrument specified in subsection
(1) he may, in writing, direct the bank to
withhold the payment required by subsection
(1) and the bank shall not make the payment
until directed in writing by the Minister to
do so.
(3) Subject to subsection 18(5) of the Bank
of Canada Act, where payment has been made
to the Bank of Canada under subsection (1)
with respect to a debt or instrument, the Bank
of Canada, if payment is demanded or the
instrument is presented at the Bank of Canada
by the person who, but for subsection (1),
would be entitled to receive payment of the
debt or instrument, is liable to pay at its
agency in the province in which the debt or
instrument was payable, an amount equal to
the amount so paid to it, with interest thereon
a period not exceeding twenty years, from
day on which the payment was received
the Bank of Canada until the date of
payment to the claimant, at such rate and
computed in such manner as the Minister
determines if interest was payable in accord
ance with the terms of the debt, and such
liability may be enforced by action against
the Bank of Canada in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the province in which the debt
or instrument was payable.
(4) Where the bank has paid an amount to
the Bank of Canada under subsection (1) in
respect of a debt or instrument, it shall keep
all signature cards and signing authorities
relating to the debt or instrument until the
Bank of Canada notifies the bank that they
are no longer required and thereafter may
destroy them.
(5) Except as provided in subsection (1) of
this section and in subsection 64(2), the
liability of the bank in respect of a debt or
an instrument to which subsection (1) applies
is not extinguished and any action to enforce
payment of the debt or instrument is not
barred by any statute of prescription or
limitation. 196&67, c. 93, s. 82.

**83.** The bank may, without the authority,
aid, assistance or intervention of any other
person or official being required,
  * (_a_) receive deposits from any person whom
soever, whatever his age, status or condition
in life, and whether such person is qualified
by law to enter into ordinary contracts or
not, and
(6) from time to time pay any or all of the
principal thereof and any or all of the
interest thereon to or to the order of such
person, unless before payment the money
so deposited in the bank is claimed by some
other person in any action or proceeding to
which the bank is a party and in respect of
which service of a writ or other process
originating such action or proceeding has
been made on the bank, or in any other
action or proceeding pursuant to which an
injunction or order made by the court
requiring the bank not to make payment of
such money or to make payment thereof to
some person other than the depositor has
been served on the bank, and in the case of
any such claim so made the money so
with the consent of the claimant or to the
claimant with the consent of the depositor.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 83.

**84.** (1) The bank is not bound to see to the
execution of any trust, whether express,
implied or constructive, to which any deposit
made under the authority of this Act is
subject.
(2) When any deposit made under the
authority of this Act is subject to a trust of
which the bank has notice, the receipt or
cheque of the person in whose name the
deposit stands, or, if it stands in the names of
two or more than two persons, the receipt or
cheque of all such persons or of such of them
as under the document creating the trust may
be entitled to receive the deposit is, notwith
standing any trust to which the deposit is
then subject, a sufficient discharge to all
concerned for the payment of any money
payable in respect of the deposit and the
bank is not bound to see to the application of
any money paid upon such receipt or cheque.
(3) Except only in the case of a claim made
in the manner referred to in paragraph 83(6),
by some other person before repayment, the
receipt or cheque of the person in whose name
any deposit stands, or, if it stands in the
names of two persons, the receipt or cheque
of one, or, if it stands in the names of more
than two persons, the receipt or cheque of the
majority of such persons is a sufficient
discharge to all concerned for the payment of
any money payable in respect of the deposit.
(4) A writ or process originating a legal
proceeding or issued therein or in pursuance
thereof or an order or injunction made by a
court affects and binds only property in the
possession of the bank belonging to, or moneys
to the credit of, a person at the branch where
such writ, process, order or injunction or
notice thereof is served.
(5) Notwithstanding any trust, the bank
pay a deposit and the interest thereon,
depositor, and the bank is not bound to see
to the application of the money paid on any
receipt given by any or all of the persons in
whose name the deposit stands. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 84.

**85.** (1) Where the interest in any deposit
is transmitted by or in consequence of
  * (_a_) the marriage of a female depositor, or
(6) any lawful means, other than by a
transfer upon the books of the bank,
the transmission shall be authenticated by a
declaration in writing as provided in this
section or in such other manner as the directors
of the bank require.
(2) Every declaration shall distinctly state
the manner in which and the person to whom
the deposit has been transmitted, and shall
give his post office address and description,
and such person shall make and sign the
declaration.
(3) The person making and signing the
declaration shall acknowledge the same before
a judge of a court of record, or before the
mayor, provost or chief magistrate of a city,
town, borough or other place, or before a
notary public, or a commissioner for taking
affidavits, where the declaration is made and
signed.
(4) Every declaration signed and acknowl
edged as required by this section shall be left
with the general manager or other officer or
agent of the bank, who shall thereupon enter
in the books of the bank the name of the
person entitled to the deposit under the
transmission. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 85.

**86.** Where the transmission of a debt owing
by the bank by reason of a deposit takes place
because of the death of a person, the delivery
to the bank
  * (_a_) of an affidavit or declaration in writing
in form satisfactory to the bank signed by
or on behalf of a person claiming by virtue
of the transmission stating the nature and
effect of the transmission, and
(6) when the claim is based on
  * (_i_) a will or other testamentary instrument
or on a grant of probate thereof or on
such a grant and letters testamentary or
other document of like import or on a
grant of letters of administration or other
document of like import, purporting to
be issued by any court or authority in
Canada or elsewhere, of an authenticated
copy or certificate thereof under the seal
of the court or authority without proof of
the authenticity of the seal or other proof,
or
  * (_ii_) a notarial will, of an authenticated
copy thereof,
is sufficient justification and authority for
giving effect to the transmission in accordance
with the claim ; but nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent the bank from
refusing to give effect to a transmission until
there has been delivered to the bank such
documentary or other evidence of or in
connection with the transmission as it may
deem requisite. 196&-67, c. 93, s. 86.

**87.** The bank, when making any payment
shall, on the request of the person to whom
the payment is to be made, make the payment
or a part thereof, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, as that person requests, in Bank of
Canada notes for one, two or five dollars
each. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 87.

## CHARITABLE FUNDS

**88.** The directors shall continue to distrib-
u * e to charitable institutions yearly, as
heretofore, the interest earned on the amounts
invested for that purpose. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 88.

**89.** The principal of the Poor Fund of The
Montreal City and District Savings Bank,
which has been ascertained and settled at one
hundred and eighty thousand dollars, shall
continue to be invested and shall be held by
that bank in any of the securities mentioned
in section 66. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 89.

## RETURNS
and to the Bank of Canada, in the
set out in Schedule A, which shall
fairly the financial position of the
on the last day of the last preceding
month. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 91.

**91.** The bank shall, within the first fifteen
days of each month, make a return to the
Minister and to the Bank of Canada, in a
form prescribed by the Minister, of the
information appropriate to determine reserves
for the last preceding month in accordance
with subsection 63(3). 1966-67, c. 93, s. 92.

**92.** The bank shall, within sixty days after
the end of each calendar year, make a return
to the Minister as of the end of that calendar
year, in such form as he prescribes, with
respect to all debts payable by the bank in
Canada in Canadian currency by reason of
deposits at branches of the bank in Canada
in respect of which no transaction has taken
place and no statement of account has been
requested or acknowledged by the creditor
during a period of nine years or more,
reckoned
  * (_a_) in the case of a deposit made for a fixed
period, from the day on which the fixed
period terminated, and
(6) in the case of any other deposit, from
the day on which the last transaction took
place or a statement of account was last
requested or acknowledged b}- the creditor,
whichever is later,
until the date of the return. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 93(1).

**93.** (1) A return made under section 92
shall show in so far as known to the bank
  * (_a_) the name of each creditor to whom the
debts are payable ;
(6) the recorded address of each such
creditor ;
  * (_c_) the amount payable to each such
creditor; and
  * (_d_) the branch of the bank at which the last
transaction took place with respect to the
debt, and the date thereof.
(2) Where the total amount of debts to
section 92 applies payable to a creditor
is less than ten dollars, the bank may omit
the particulars in respect thereof required by
subsection (1) from returns made under section
92 and this section. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 93(2)(3).

**94.** (1) The bank shall, within sixty days
after the end of each calendar year, make a
return to the Minister as of the end of that
calendar year, in such form as he prescribes,
with respect to all cheques, drafts or bills of
exchange (including instruments drawn by
one branch of the bank upon another branch
of the bank but not including instruments
issued in payment of a dividend on the
capital stock of the bank) payable in Canada
in Canadian currency that have been issued,
certified or accepted by the bank at branches
of the bank in Canada and in respect of which
no payment has been made for a period of
nine years or more reckoned from the date of
issue, certification or acceptance until the
date of the return.
(2) A return made under subsection (1) shall
show in so far as known to the bank
  * (_a_) the name of each person to whom or at
whose request each instrument was issued,
certified or accepted ;
(6) the recorded address of each such
person ;
  * (_c_) the name of the payee of each instru
ment;
  * (_d_) the amount and date of each instru
ment;
  * (_e_) the name of the place where each
instrument was payable ; and
  * (_f_) the branch of the bank at which each
instrument was issued, certified or accepted.
(3) Where the amount of an instrument to
which subsection (1) applies is less than ten
dollars, the bank may omit the particulars in
respect thereof required by subsection (2) from
returns made under this section. 1966-67,
c. 93, s. 94.

**95.** The bank shall mail to each person, in
so far as known to the bank,
  * (_a_) to whom a debt referred to in sections
92 and 93 is payable, or
(6) to whom or at whose request an
instrument referred to in section 94 was
issued, certified or accepted,
at his recorded address, a notice in writing
that the debt or instrument, as the
95(1).

**96.** The notice required by section 95 shall
be given during the month of January next
after the end of the first two-year period, and
also during the month of January next after
the end of the first five-year period, in respect
of which
  * (_a_) no transaction has taken place and no
statement of account has been requested or
acknowledged by the creditor, or
(6) the instrument has remained unpaid,
as the case may be. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 95(2).

**97.** (1) The bank shall, within thirty days
after the end of each calendar year, make a
return to the Minister with respect to its
shareholders according to its books as at the
end of the financial year of the bank ending
in that calendar year, showing
  * (_a_) the name of each shareholder who holds
shares of the capital stock of the bank
having a par value of more than five
thousand dollars;
(6) the place of the recorded address of
each such shareholder;
  * (_c_) the number of shares held by him and
the amount, if any, remaining to be paid
thereon ;
  * (_d_) a designation of each such shareholder
whose recorded address is a place within
Canada but who, to the knowledge of the
bank, is a non-resident for the purposes of
sections 46 to 49 ;
  * (_e_) the total number of shares held by
  * (_i_) those shareholders whose recorded
addresses are places outside Canada, and
  * (_ii_) those shareholders who each hold
shares having a par value of more than
five thousand dollars, whose recorded
addresses are places within Canada but
who, to the knowledge of the bank, are
non-residents for the purposes of sections
46 to 49 ; and
(/) the total number of shareholders who
each hold shares having a par value of not
more than five thousand dollars, the total
number of shares held by them collectively
and the total amount, if any, remaining to
be paid thereon.
(2) A return made by the bank under this
section shall be signed by the president, a
vice-president or a director authorized to sign
in the place of the president, and by the
general manager or a person authorized to
sign in the place of the general manager. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 97.

**98.** (1) In addition to the returns required
by sections 90 to 97, the bank shall furnish to
the Minister,
  * (_a_) the documents required to be sent to
him under section 33, and subsection 55(14),
and
  * (_b_) such other information at such times
and in such form as the Minister may
require.
(2) The Minister may, in any case of doubt,
determine
  * (_a_) the information that is to be included
in any classification, and
  * (_b_) in which classification particular infor
mation shall be included,
in any form prescribed by or under this Act.
(3) The Minister may extend the time for
making a return required by this Act for a
period not exceeding thirty days. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 98.

**99.** In addition to the returns required by
sections 90 and 91 the bank shall furnish to
the Bank of Canada such other information
at such times and in such form as the Bank
of Canada may require, but the bank shall
not be required under this section to furnish
information with respect to the accounts or
affairs of any particular person. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 99.

**100.** A return made by the bank under
sections 90 to 94 shall have annexed thereto
as part of the return, a declaration in the
form set out in Schedule D, signed
  * (_a_) as to Part I thereof, by the chief
accountant or a person authorized to sign
in the place of the chief accountant ; and
  * (_b_) as to Part II thereof, by the president,
a vice-president or a director authorized to
sign in the place of the president, and by
the general manager or a person authorized
to sign in the place of the general manager.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 100.

**101.** (1) Each return made under section
shall be laid before Parliament within
days after the expiry of the time
prescribed by or pursuant to this Act for
making the return or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, within the first thirty days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
(2) The Minister shall, in each year, cause
the information contained in the returns
made under sections 92 to 94 in that year to
be published in the Canada Gazette within
thirty days after the expiry of the time
prescribed by or pursuant to this Act for
making the return. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 101.

## INSOLVENCY

**102.** (1) Any suspension by the bank of
payment of any of its liabilities as they
accrue, in Bank of Canada notes, if it
continues for ninety days consecutively, or at
intervals within twelve consecutive months,
constitutes the bank insolvent.
(2) The charter or Act of incorporation of
the bank in the case mentioned in subsection
(1) remains in force only for the purpose of
enabling the directors, or other lawful authori
ty, to make and enforce the calls mentioned
in section 103, and to wind up the business of
the bank. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 102.

**103.** (1) Where any suspension of payment
in full, in Bank of Canada notes, of any of
the liabilities of the bank, continues for three
months after the expiration of the time that,
under subsection 102(1) would constitute the
bank insolvent, and no proceedings are taken
under any Act for the winding-up of the bank,
the directors shall make calls on each
shareholder thereof to the amount they deem
necessary to pay all the debts and liabilities
of the bank not exceeding the amount
uncalled on his shares, without waiting for
the collection of any debts due to the bank or
the sale of any of its assets or property.
(2) The following provisions apply in
,-11 , u ,,\
respect of calls made under subsection (1),
namely :
  * (_a_) the calls shall be payable at intervals of
thirty days ;
(6) notice of the calls shall be given to the
shareholders;
  * (_c_) any number of calls may be made by
one resolution ;
  * (_d_) no call shall exceed twenty per cent of
the amount subscribed in respect of each
share ;
  * (_e_) payment of calls may be enforced in
like manner as payment of any other calls
under this Act ;
(/) the first of such calls may be made
within ten days after the expiration of the
said three months.
(3) j n the event of proceedings being taken
under any Act for the winding-up of the bank
in consequence of the insolvency of the bank,
any calls on shareholders made thereafter
shall be in accordance with such Act.
(4) Failure on the part of a shareholder to
pay any call referred to in this section when
due constitutes a forfeiture by the shareholder
of all claim in or to any part of the assets of
the bank, but the call and any further call
thereafter is recoverable from him as if no
forfeiture had taken place. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 103.

**104.** The following persons, namely,
  * (_a_) persons who, having been shareholders
of the bank, have transferred their shares,
or any of them, within sixty days before
the commencement of the suspension of
payment by the bank, and
(6) persons whose shares of the capital stock
of the bank have been forfeited within sixty
days before the commencement of the
suspension of payment by the bank,
are liable to all calls on the shares held or
subscribed for by them, as if they held such
shares at the time of such suspension of
payment, saving their recourse against those
by whom such shares were then actually held.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 104.
1Q5. In the case of the insolvency of the
  * (_a_) the payment of any amount due to the
Government of Canada, in trust or other
wise, shall be the first charge upon the
assets of the bank;
(6) the payment of any amount due to the
government of a province, in trust or
otherwise, shall be the second charge upon
such assets ; and
  * (_c_) the amount of any penalties for which
the bank is liable shall be a charge upon
the assets of the bank after all other
liabilities are paid. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 105.

## CURATOR
1Q6. (1) The Minister shall, if the bank
suspends payment in Bank of Canada notes
of any of its liabilities as they accrue,
forthwith appoint in writing a curator to
supervise the affairs of the bank.
(2) The Minister may, if the Inspector
reports that in his opinion the bank is
insolvent, forthwith appoint in writing a
curator to supervise the affairs of the bank.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 106.

**107.** The Minister may at any time remove
the curator and may appoint in writing
another person to act in his stead. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 107.

**108.** (1) The curator shall assume supervi
sion of the affairs of the bank, and has
generally all powers and shall take all steps
and do all things necessary or expedient to
protect the rights and interests of the creditors
and shareholders of the bank, and to conserve
and ensure the proper disposition, according
to law, of the assets of the bank; and, for the
purposes of this section, he is entitled to free
and full access to all books, accounts, cash,
securities, documents and vouchers of the
bank and any security held by the bank.
(2) The curator shall supervise the affairs
of the bank until he is removed from office,
or until a liquidator is duly appointed to
wind up the business of the bank. 1966-67, c.
93, s. 108.

**109.** The directors, officers and employees
the bank shall give and afford to the
curator all such information and assistance as
he requires in the discharge of his duties.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 109.

**110.** No by-law, regulation, resolution or
act, relating to the affairs or management of
the bank, passed, made or done by the
directors during the time the curator is in
charge of the bank, is of any force or effect
until approved in writing by the curator. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 110.

**111.** The remuneration of the curator for
his services, and his expenses and disburse-*
ments in connection with the discharge of his
duties, shall be fixed and determined by a
judge of a superior court in the Province of
Quebec, and shall be paid out of the assets of
the bank, and, in case of the windingup of
the bank, shall rank on the estate equally
with the remuneration of the liquidator. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 111.

## LIQUIDATOR

**112.** A liquidator appointed to wind up
the affairs of the bank shall furnish to the
Minister such information, in such form,
relating to the affairs of the bank, as the
Minister may require of him. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 112.

## PAYMENTS UPON WINDING, UP

**113.** (1) Notwithstanding the Winding-up
Act, where the business of the bank is being
wound up, the liquidator shall pay to the
Minister on demand and in any event before
the final winding-up thereof, any amount
that is payable by the liquidator to a creditor
or shareholder of the bank to whom payment
thereof has not, for any reason, been made.
(2) The Minister shall pay to the Bank of
Canada any amounts paid to him under
subsection (1).
(3) Payment by a liquidator to the Minister
under this section discharges the liquidator
and the bank in respect of which the payment
is made from all liability for the amount so
paid and payment by the Minister to the
of Canada under this section discharges
Minister from all liability for the amount
paid.
of Canada Act, where payment has been made
to the Bank of Canada of an amount under
this section, the Bank of Canada, if payment
is demanded by the person who, but for this
section, would be entitled to receive payment
of that amount from the liquidator or the
Minister, is liable to pay at its head office an
amount equal to the amount so paid to it,
with interest thereon for the period, not
exceeding twenty years, from the day on
which the payment was received by the Bank
of Canada until the date of payment to the
claimant, at such rate and computed in such
manner as the Governor in Council deter
mines, and such liability may be enforced by
action against the Bank of Canada in any
court of competent jurisdiction in Canada.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 113.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
Sale and Transfer of Shares
11 oTokev 114. or Every agent, person, who in sells whether or transfers principal, or
attempts to sell or transfer any share of the
capital stock of a bank
  * (_a_) knowing that the person making the
sale or transfer, or that the person in whose
name or on whose behalf the sale or transfer
is made, is not at the time of the sale or
attempted sale the registered owner, or
(6) without the assent to the sale of the
registered owner thereof,
is guilty of an offence against this Act, unless
under the by-laws of the bank it is unnecessary
that transfers of shares of its capital stock be
made in the books of the bank. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 114.
Annual Statement
us. Every bank that issues or publishes
  * (_a_) a copy of the annual statement that has
not been signed as required by section 53,
or
(6) a copy of the annual statement required
by section 53 that does not have a copy of
the auditors report attached thereto,
every director, officer or employee of the
publication is liable to a penalty of two
hundred and fifty dollars. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 115.
Inspection
H6. (i) Every person who refuses to give
evidence under oath or to produce any book
or document material thereto when required
to do so by the Inspector or his representative
when acting under subsection 56(3) is guilty
of an offence against this Act.
(2) Every bank that, and every director,
officer or employee of a bank who, makes or
pays a grant or gratuity in contravention of
section 58 is guilty of an offence against this
Act.
(3) Every person who refuses or fails to
furnish the Inspector with any information or
explanations that the Inspector requires him
to furnish under section 56 is guilty of an
offence against this Act.
(4) T ne Inspector or any other person
appointed or employed under section 64 of
the Bank Act who accepts a grant or gratuity
in contravention of section 58 is guilty of an
offence against this Act.
(5) The Inspector or any other person
appointed or employed under section 64 of
the Bank Act or any person to whom powers
are delegated under subsection 56(3) of this
Act who discloses any information in contra
vention of section 59 is guilty of an offence
against this Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 116.
Cash and Secondary Reserves

**117.** When a bank knowingly fails to
maintain the reserves as required by section
63, the amount of the deficiency shall be
deemed to be a deficiency for the entire
month in which it occurs and the bank is
liable to a penalty at the rate of ten per cent
per annum of the amount for that period.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 117.
Issue and Circulation of Notes
1 18. Every bank that issues a note contrary
to paragraph 65(2)(a), and every director,
or employee of the bank who knowingly
a party thereto, is guilty of an offence
this Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 118.
Prohibited Business

**119.** (1) Every bank that violates any of
the provisions of paragraph 65(2)(6),(c),(d) or
  * (_e_) is liable to a penalty of five hundred
dollars in respect of each violation.
(2) Every bank that .violates the provisions
of paragraph 65(2)(/) is liable to a penalty of
five thousand dollars in respect of each
violation.
(3) Every bank that makes a loan, advance
or investment not authorized by this Act is
liable, in addition to any other penalty
prescribed by this Act, to a penalty of fifty
dollars for each day during which any part of
the loan, advance or investment is not
authorized by this Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 119.
Interest Disclosure

**120.** Every bank that violates the provi
sions of subsection 80(2) or (5) is liable to a
penalty of one thousand dollars in respect of
each such violation. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 120(2).
Returns
12 1. (1) Every bank that fails
  * (_a_) to make a return required to be made
by it under this Act,
  * (_b_) to furnish to the Minister any informa
tion required to be furnished by it under
subsection 98(1), or
  * (_c_) to furnish to the Bank of Canada any
information required to be furnished by it
under section 99,
in the form and manner, within the time and
containing the information prescribed by or
pursuant to this Act, is liable to a penalty of
fifty dollars for each day after the expiry of
the time so prescribed for making the return
or furnishing the information during which
the failure continues.
(2) If any return required to be made ur or
any information required to be furnished
under or pursuant to this Act is transmitted
post, the date appearing by the stamp or
mark of the post office in Canada upon the
envelope or wrapper enclosing the return or
information received by the Minister or by
the Bank of Canada, as the date of deposit
in the post office shall be taken prima facie
for the purpose of subsection (1) to be the day
upon which the return was made or the
information was furnished. 1966-67, c. 93,
s. 121.

**122.** Every director, officer or employee of
a bank and every auditor of a bank who
knowingly prepares, signs, approves or concurs
in any account, statement, return, report or
document respecting the affairs of the bank
containing any false or deceptive information,
or any return that does not present fairly
information as required by this Act, is guilty
of an indictable offence and liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 122(1).

**123.** Every director, officer or employee of
a bank and every auditor of a bank who
negligently prepares, signs, approves or con
curs in any account, statement, return, report
or document respecting the affairs of the bank
containing any false or deceptive information,
or any return that does not present fairly
information as required by this Act, is guilty
of a indictable offence and liable to impris
onment for a term not exceeding three years.
1966-67, c. 93, s. 122(2).
Suspension of Payment

**124.** Every director, officer or employee of
a bank who, during any period of suspension
of payment in Bank of Canada notes of any
of the liabilities of the bank as they accrue,
with knowledge of such suspension and
without the consent of a duly appointed
curator or liquidator, pays or causes to be
paid to any person any debt or liability of
the bank, is guilty of an offence against this
Act. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 124.
Undue Preference to the Bank s Creditors

**125.** Every director, officer or employee of
a ^ an^ wno w i^ u ^y gives or concurs in giving
to any creditor of the bank any fraudulent,
undue or unfair preference over other credi
tors, by giving security to such creditor, or by
changing the nature of his claim, or otherwise,
is guilty of an indictable offence and liable
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 125.

**126.** (1) Every person is guilty of an
offence and liable, upon conviction on
indictment, to two years imprisonment or to
a fine not exceeding twenty-five hundred
dollars or to both, and, upon summary
conviction, to imprisonment for six months,
or to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
or to both, who
  * (_a_) being a director, officer or employee of
a bank, corruptly accepts or obtains, or
agrees to accept or attempts to obtain, from
any person for himself or for any other
person, any gift or consideration as an
inducement or reward for doing or forbear
ing to do, or for having done or forborne to
do, any act relating to the bank s business
or affairs, or for showing or forbearing to
show favour or disfavour to any person with
relation to the bank s business or affairs; or
  * (_b_) corruptly gives or agrees to give or offers
any gift or consideration to a director,
officer or employee of a bank as an
inducement or reward or consideration for
doing or forbearing to do, or for having
done or forborne to do, any act relating to
the bank s business or affairs, or for showing
or forbearing to show favour or disfavour
to any person with relation to the bank s
business or affairs.
(2) In this section "consideration" includes
consideration of any kind. 1966-67,
93, s. 126.
Offences Relating to Share Transactions

**127.** (1) Every bank that violates any
provision of section 46 is guilty of an offence
and liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding five thousand dollars; and
every person who, being a director, officer,
employee or agent of the bank, knowingly
authorizes or permits a violation of any
provision of section 46 is guilty of an offence
and liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding five thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.
(2) Every person who knowingly violates
any provision of section 47 or subsection 49(6)
is guilty of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year or to both. 1966-
67, c. 93, s. 127.
Punishment for Offences against this Act

**128.** Every person who commits an offence
against this Act is, unless otherwise provided
by this Act, liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both ; or
(6) on conviction upon indictment, to a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years, or to both. 1966-67, c. 93, s. 128.
Procedure

**129.** (1) Unless otherwise provided by this
Act, pecuniary penalties imposed upon a bank
or person by this Act are recoverable and
enforceable, with costs, at the suit of Her
Majesty instituted by the Attorney General
of Canada, and such penalties belong to Her
Majesty in right of Canada, except that the
Governor in Council, on the report of the
Minister, may direct that any portion of any
be remitted, or paid to any person,
applied in any manner deemed best
adapted to attain the objects of this Act
to secure the due administration thereof.
(2) The Minister may waive all or any
of the pecuniary penalties imposed by
Act in any case where in his opinion
circumstances so warrant. 1966-67, c. 93, s.

**2.** Notes of and deposits with Bank of Canada and
deposits with chartered banks in Canadian currency

**3.** Other bank notes and deposits with banks in cur
rencies other than Canadian ..

**4.** Cheques and other items in transit, net ...

**5.** Securities issued or guaranteed by Canada, at
amortized value

**6.** Securities issued or guaranteed by a province, at
amortized value ..

**7.** Securities issued or guaranteed by a municipal or
school corporation in Canada, not exceeding mar
ket value

**8.** Securities and shares of other Canadian issuers, not
exceeding market value ..

**9.** Mortgages and hypothecs insured under the Na-
tional Housing Act

**10.** Other mortgages and hypothecs, less provision for
losses

**11.** Loans otherwise secured, less provision for losses ...

**12.** Loans without security, less provision for losses

**13.** Poor Fund or Charity Fund investments

**14.** Bank premises at cost, less amounts written off ....

**15.** Other assets ...

## LIABILITIES

**1.** Deposits by Canada, in Canadian currency ...

**2.** Deposits by a province, in Canadian currency

**3.** Other deposits in Canadian currency

**4.** Deposits in currencies other than Canadian ..

**5.** Advances from Bank of Canada, secured

**6.** Advances from chartered banks, secured

**7.** Poor Fund or Charity Fund Trust ..

**8.** Other liabilities

**9.** Accumulated appropriations for losses ..

**10.** Capital paid up

**11.** Rest account

**12.** Undivided profits at latest financial year end

## SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Aggregate amount of loans to directors and firms of
which they are members, and loans for which they

## SCHEDULE B
(Section 53(2) (b))
Statement of Revenue, Expenses and Undivided Profits
of the Bank
for the financial year ended October 31, 19

## REVENUE

**1.** Income from loans $

**2.** Income from securities

**3.** Other operating revenue

**4.** Total revenue ..

## EXPENSES

**5.** Interest on deposits ..

**6.** Salaries, pension contributions and other staff
benefits

**7.** Property expenses, including depreciation ..

**8.** Other operating expenses, including provision for
losses on loans based on five-year average loss
experience

**9.** Total expenses ..

**10.** Balance of revenue

**11.** Appropriation for losses

**12.** Balance of profits before income taxes

**13.** Provision for income taxes relating thereto

**14.** Balance of profits for the year ..

**15.** Dividends

**16.** Amount carried forward

**17.** Undivided profits at beginning of year ...

**18.** Transfer from accumulated appropriations for
losses

**19.** Transferred to rest account

**20.** Undivided profits at end of year ... 6
NOTE: Titles should be deleted where there are no amounts
to be reported thereunder. Omit cents.
1966-67, c. 93, Sch. B.

## SCHEDULE C
(Section 53(2)(c))
Statement of Accumulated Appropriations for Losses
of the Bank
for the financial year ended October 31, 19

**1.** Accumulated appropriations at beginning of year
General .. ..Tax-paid .. ..Total $

**2.** Appropriation from current year s operations

**3.** Loss experience on loans less provision included in
other operating expenses

**4.** Profits and losses on securities, including provisions
to reduce securities other than those of Canada and
a province to values not exceeding market
Other profits, losses and non-recurring items, net
Provision for income taxes
Transferred to undivided profits
Accumulated appropriations at end of year
General Tax-paid Total $
NOTE: Titles should be deleted where there are no amounts

## SCHEDULE D
Declaration required by section 100

## PART I
I declare that the above return is correct according to the
books of the bank.
Dated at this day of 19
Chief Accountant

## PART II
We declare that the foregoing return, to the best of our
knowledge and belief, is correct and presents fairly the informa
tion required by section of the Quebec Savings
Banks Act according to the latest information available to us.
Dated at ....this day of... 19..
President
General Manager
1966-67, c. 93, Sch. D.
