
# CHAPTER B-5
Act relating to bills of exchange, cheques
and promissor} r notes

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Bills of
Exchange Act. R.S., c. 15, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"acceptance" means an acceptance completed
by delivery or notification ;
"action" includes counterclaim and set-off;
"bank" means an incorporated bank or savings
bank carrying on business in Canada ;
"bearer" means the person in possession of a
bill or note that is payable to bearer ;
"bill" means bill of exchange, and "note"
means promissory note ;
"defence" includes counterclaim ;
"delivery" means transfer of possession, actual
or constructive, from one person to another;
"endorsement" means an endorsement com
pleted by delivery ;
"holder" means the payee or endorsee of a
bill or note who is in possession of it, or the
bearer thereof;
"issue" means the first delivery of a bill or
note, complete in form, to a person who
takes it as a holder;
"non-business days" means days directed by
this Act to be observed as legal holidays or
non-juridical days ; and any other day is a
business day ;
"value" means valuable consideration. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 2.

## PARTI

## GENERAL

**3.** A thing is deemed to be done in good
faith, within the meaning of this Act, where
it is in fact done honestly whether it is done
negligently or not. R.S., c. 15, s. 3.

**4.** Where by this Act any instrument or
writing is required to be signed by any person,
it is not necessary that he should sign it with
his own hand, but it is sufficient if his
signature is written thereon by some other
person by or under his authority. R.S., c. 15,
s. 4.

**5.** In the case of a corporation, where, by
this Act, any instrument or writing is required
to be signed, it is sufficient if the instrument
or writing is duly sealed with the corporate
seal ; but nothing in this section shall be
construed as requiring the bill or note of a
corporation to be under seal. R.S., c. 15, s. 5.
T

**6.** (1) W here, by this Act, the time limited
for doing any act or thing is less than three
days, in reckoning time, non-business days
are excluded.
(2) In all matters relating to bills or notes
  * (_a_) if the time for doing any act or thing
expires or falls on a Saturday, that time is
deemed to expire or fall, as the case may
be, on the next following business day ;
(6) a bill or note payable on demand cannot
be duly presented for acceptance or payment
on a Saturday ; and
  * (_c_) failure to do any act or thing on a
Saturday does not give rise to any rights.
a Saturday or a non-juridical day, if the
is open for business at the time of the
and the presentment in all other
is in accordance with this Act ; and
the non-acceptance or non-payment of a
cheque so presented gives rise to the same
rights as though it had been presented on a
business day other than a Saturday.
(4) j n a u matters relating to bills or notes,
notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act, if a branch of a bank carrying on business
is not open for business on a business day
  * (_a_) the time for doing any act or thing at
the branch, if the time expires or falls on
that day, is deemed to expire or fall, as the
case may be, on the next following business
day on which the branch is open for
business ;
(6) a bill or note payable on demand cannot
be duly presented for acceptance or payment
at the branch on that day ; and
  * (_c_) failure to do any act or thing by reason
of the branch not being open for business
on that day does not give rise to any rights.
R.S., c. 15,s.6; 1966-67, c. 12, s. 1.

**7.** The provisions of this Act relating to
crossed cheques apply to a warrant for
payment of dividend. R.S., c. 15, s. 7.

**8.** Nothing in this Act affects the provisions
of the Bank Act. R.S., c. 15, s. 8.

**9.** The Act of the Parliament of Great
Britain passed in the 15th year of the reign
of His Majesty George III entitled An Act to
restrain the negotiation of Promissory Notes and
Inland Bills of Exchange under a limited sum
within that part of Great Britain called England,
and the Act of the said Parliament passed in
the 17th year of His said Majesty s reign,
entitled An Act for further restraining the
negotiation of Promissory Notes and Inland Bills
of Exchange under a limited sum within that
part of Great Britain called England, do not
extend to, nor are they in force in, any
province of Canada, nor do the said Acts
make void any bills, notes, drafts or orders
made or uttered therein. R.S., c. 15, s. 9.

**10.** The rules of the common law of
England, including the law merchant, save in
far as they are inconsistent with the express
provisions of this Act, apply to bills of
exchange, promissory notes and cheques. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 10.

**11.** A protest of any bill or note within
Canada, and any copy thereof as copied by
the notary or justice of the peace, is, in any
action, evidence of presentation and dis
honour, and also of service of notice of such
presentation and dishonour as stated in such
protest or copy. R.S., c. 15, s. 11.

**12.** Where a bill or note, presented for
acceptance, or payable out of Canada, is
protested for non-acceptance or non-payment,
a notarial copy of the protest and of the
notice of dishonour, and a notarial certificate
of the service of such notice, shall be received
in all courts as prima facie evidence of such
protest, notice and service. R.S., c. 15, s. 12.

**13.** No clerk, teller or agent of any bank
shall act as a notary in the protesting of any
bill or note payable at the bank or at any of
the branches of the bank in which he is
employed. R.S., c. 15, s. 13.

**14.** (1) Every bill or note the consideration
of which consists, in whole or in part, of the
purchase money of a patent right, or of a
partial interest, limited geographically or
otherwise, in a patent right, shall have written
or printed prominently and legibly across the
face thereof, before it is issued, the words
Given for a patent right.
(2) Without such words thereon, such instru
ment and any renewal thereof is void, except
in the hands of a holder in due course without
notice of such consideration. R.S., c. 15, s. 14.

**15.** The endorsee or other transferee of
set-off in respect of the whole or any part
thereof that would have existed between the
original parties. R.S., c. 15, s. 15.

**16.** Every one who issues, sells or transfers,
by endorsement or delivery, any such instru
ment not having the words Given for a patent
right printed or written across the face thereof
in the manner prescribed by section 14,
knowing the consideration of such instrument
to have consisted, in whole or in part, of the
purchase money of a patent right, or of a
partial interest, limited geographically or
otherwise, in a patent right, is guilty of an
indictable offence and liable to imprisonment
for any term not exceeding one year, or to
such fine, not exceeding two hundred dollars,
as the court thinks fit. R.S., c. 15, s. 16.

# PARTH

## BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Form and Interpretation of Bill

**17.** (1) A bill of exchange is an uncondi
tional order in writing, addressed by one
person to another, signed by the person giving
it, requiring the person to whom it is addressed
to pay, on demand or at a fixed or
determinable future time, a sum certain in
money to or to the order of a specified person,
or to bearer.
(2) An instrument that does not comply
with the requirements of subsection (1), or
that orders any act to be done in addition to
the payment of money, is not, except as
hereinafter provided, a bill of exchange.
(3) An order to pav out of a particular fund

## . ....... . ,
is not unconditional within the meaning ot
this section, except that an unqualified order
to pay, coupled with
  * (_a_) an indication of a particular fund out
of which the drawee is to reimburse himself,
or a particular account to be debited with
the amount ; or
(6) a statement of the transaction which
gives rise to the bill, is unconditional. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 17.

**18.** (1) An instrument expressed to be
on a contingency is not a bill, and
the happening of the event does not cure the
defect.
(2) A bill may be addressed to two or more
drawees, whether they are partners or not;
but an order addressed to two drawees in the
alternative, or to two or more drawees in
succession, is not a bill of exchange. R.S., c.
15, s. 18.

**19.** (1) A bill may be drawn payable to, or
to the order of, the drawer; or it may be
drawn payable to, or to the order of, the
drawee.
(2) A bill may be made payable to two or
more payees jointly, or it may be made
payable in the alternative to one of two, or
one or some of several payees.
(3) A bill may be made payable to the
holder of an office for the time being. R.S., c.
15, s. 19.

**20.** The drawee must be named or otherwise
indicated in a bill with reasonable certainty.
R.S., c. 15,s.20.

**21.** (1) When a bill contains words prohib
iting inng iransier, transfer, or or indicating indicating an an inieniion intention that mat
it should not be transferable, it is valid as
between the parties thereto, but it is not
negotiable.
(2) A negotiable bill may be payable either
to order or to bearer.
(3) A bill is payable to bearer that is
expressed to be so payable, or on which the
only or last endorsement is an endorsement
in blank.
(4) Where a bill is not payable to bearer,
the payee must be named or otherwise
indicated therein with reasonable certainty.
(5) Where the payee is a fictitious or non-
existing person, the bill may be treated as
payable to bearer. R.S., c. 15, s. 21.

**22.** (1) A bill is payable to order that is
expressed to be so payable, or that is expressed
be payable to a particular person, and does
contain words prohibiting transfer or
an intention that it should not be
transferable.
(2) Where a bill, either originally or by
endorsement, is expressed to be payable to
the order of a specified person, and not to
him or his order, it is nevertheless payable to
him or his order, at his option. R.S., c. 15,
s. 22.

**23.** (1) A bill is payable on demand
  * (_a_) that is expressed to be payable on
demand, or on presentation; or
(6) in which no time for payment is
expressed.
(2) Where a bill is accepted or endorsed
when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the
acceptor who so accepts, or any endorser who
so endorses it, be deemed a bill payable on
demand. R.S., c. 15, s. 23.

**24.** A bill is payable at a determinate
future time, within the meaning of this Act,
that is expressed to be payable
  * (_a_) at sight or at a fixed period after date
or sight ;
(6) on or at a fixed period after the
occurrence of a specified event that is
certain to happen, though the time of
happening is uncertain. R.S., c. 15, s. 24.

**25.** (1) An inland bill is a bill that is, or
on the face of it purports to be,
  * (_a_) both drawn and payable within Canada ;
or
(6) drawn within Canada upon some person
resident therein.
(2) Any other bill is a foreign bill.
(3) Unless the contrary appears on the face
of the bill, the holder may treat it as an
inland bill. R.S., c. 15, s. 25.

**26.** Where in a bill drawer and drawee are
same person, or where the drawee is a
person or a person not having
to contract, the holder may treat the
at his option, either as a bill of
that it
  * (_a_) is not dated ;
  * (_b_) does not specify the value given, or that
any value has been given therefor;
  * (_c_) does not specify the place where it is
drawn or the place where it is payable ; or
  * (_d_) is antedated or postdated, or bears date
on a Sunday or other non-juridical day.
R.S., c. 15,3.27.

**28.** (1) The sum payable by a bill is a sum
certain within the meaning of this Act,
although it is required to be paid
  * (_a_) with interest ;
  * (_b_) by stated instalments ;
  * (_c_) by stated instalments, with a provision
that upon default in payment of any
instalment the whole shall become due; or
  * (_d_) according to an indicated rate of
exchange or according to a rate of exchange
to be ascertained as directed by the bill.
(2) Where the sum payable is expressed in
words and also in figures, and there is a
discrepancy between the two, the sum denoted
by the words is the amount payable.
(3) Where a bill is expressed to be payable
with interest, unless the instrument otherwise
provides, interest runs from the date of the
bill, and if the bill is undated, from the issue
thereof. R.S., c. 15, s. 28.

**29.** Where a bill or an acceptance, or any
endorsement on a bill, is dated, the date shall,
unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to
be the true date of the drawing, acceptance
or endorsement, as the case may be. R.S., c.
15, s. 29.

**30.** Where a bill expressed to be payable
at a fixed period after date is issued undated,
or where the acceptance of a bill payable at
sight or at a fixed period after sight is
undated, any holder may insert therein the
true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill
be payable accordingly, but
  * (_a_) where the holder in good faith and by
mistake inserts a wrong date, and
(6) in every other case where a wrong date
is inserted,
if the bill subsequently comes into the hands
of a holder in due course the bill is not voided
thereby, but operates and is payable as if the
date so inserted had been the true date. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 30.

**31.** Where a simple signature on a blank
paper is delivered by the signer in order that
it may be converted into a bill, it operates as
a prima facie authority to fill it up as a
complete bill for any amount, using the
signature for that of the drawer or acceptor,
or an endorser; and, in like manner, when a
bill is wanting in any material particular, the
person in possession of it has a prima facie
authority to fill up the omission in any way
he thinks fit. R.S., c. 15, s. 31.

**32.** (1) I n order that any instrument
referred to in section 31 when completed may
be enforceable against any person who became
a party thereto prior to its completion, it
must be filled up within a reasonable time,
and strictly in accordance with the authority
given; but where any such instrument, after
completion, is negotiated to a holder in due
course, it is valid and effectual for all purposes
in his hands, and he may enforce it as if it
had been filled up within a reasonable time
and strictly in accordance with the authority
given.
(2) Reasonable time within the meaning of
this section is a question of fact. R.S., c. 15,
s. 32.

**33.** (1) The drawer of a bill and any
endorser may insert therein the name of a
person, who shall be called the referee in case
of need, to whom the holder may resort in
case of need, that is to say, in case the bill is
dishonoured by non-acceptance or non-pay
ment.
(2) It is in the option of the holder to resort
the referee in case of need or not, as he
fit. R.S., c. 15, s. 33.

**34.** The drawer of a bill, and any endorser,
may insert therein an express stipulation
  * (_a_) negativing or limiting his own liability
to the holder;
(6) waiving, as regards himself, some or all
of the holder s duties. R.S., c. 15, s. 34.
Acceptance

**35.** (1) The acceptance of a bill is the
signification by the drawee of his assent to
the order of the drawer.
(2) Where in a bill the drawee is wrongly
designated or his name is misspelt, he may
accept the bill as therein described, adding, if
he thinks fit, his proper signature, or he may
accept by his proper signature. R.S., c. 15,
s. 35.

**36.** (1) An acceptance is invalid unless it
complies with the following conditions, name-
ly:
  * (_a_) it must be written on the bill and be
signed by the drawee ; and
(6) it must not express that the drawee will
perform his promise by any other means
than the payment of money.
(2) The mere signature of the drawee
written on the bill without additional words
is a sufficient acceptance. R.S., c. 15, s. 36.

**37.** (1) A bill may be accepted
  * (_a_) before it has been signed by the drawer,
or while otherwise incomplete, or
(6) when it is overdue, or after it has been
dishonoured by a previous refusal to accept,
or by non-payment.
(2) When a bill payable at sight or after
sight is dishonoured by non-acceptance, and
the drawee subsequently accepts it, the holder,
in the absence of any different agreement, is
entitled to have the bill accepted as of the
date of first presentment to the drawee for
acceptance. R.S., c. 15, s. 37.

**38.** (1) An acceptance is either
  * (_a_) general ; or
(6) qualified.
(2) A general acceptance assents without
to the order of the drawer.
(3) A qualified acceptance in express terms
the effect of the bill as drawn and, in
particular, an acceptance is qualified that is
  * (_a_) conditional, that is to say, that makes
payment by the acceptor dependent on the
fulfilment of a condition therein stated ;
(6) partial, that is to say, an acceptance to
pay part only of the amount for which the
bill is drawn ;
  * (_c_) qualified as to time ; or
  * (_d_) the acceptance of some one or more of
the drawees, but not of all.
(4) An acceptance to pay at a particular
specified place is not on that account
conditional or qualified. R.S., c. 15, s. 38.
Delivery

**39.** Every contract on a bill, whether it is
the drawer s, the acceptor s or an endorser s,
is incomplete and revocable, until delivery of
the instrument in order to give effect thereto,
but where an acceptance is written on a bill,
and the drawee gives notice to, or according
to the directions of, the person entitled to the
bill that he has accepted it, the acceptance
then becomes complete and irrevocable. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 39.

**40.** (1) As between immediate parties, and
as regards a remote party, other than a holder
in due course, the delivery
  * (_a_) in order to be effectual must be made
either by or under the authority of the
party drawing, accepting or endorsing, as
the case may be ;
(6) may be shown to have been conditional
or for a special purpose only, and not for
the purpose of transferring the property in
the bill.
(2) Where the bill is in the hands of a
holder in due course, a valid delivery of the
bill by all parties prior to him, so as to make
them liable to him, is conclusively presumed.
R.S., c. 15, s. 40.

**41.** Where a bill is no longer in the
of a party who has signed it as
drawer, acceptor or endorser, a valid and
unconditional delivery by him is presumed
until the contrary is proved. R.S., c. 15, s. 41.
Computation of Time, Non-juridical Days and
Days of Grace

**42.** Where a bill is not payable on demand,
three days, called days of grace, are, in every
case, where the bill itself does not otherwise
provide, added to the time of payment as
fixed by the bill, and the bill is due and
payable on the last day of grace ; but whenever
the last day of grace falls on a legal holiday
or non -juridical day in the province where
any such bill is payable, then the day next
following, not being a legal holiday or non-
juridical day in such province, is the last day
of grace. R.S., c. 15, s. 42.

**43.** In all matters relating to bills of
exchange, the following and no other days
shall be observed as legal holidays or non-
juridical days:
  * (_a_) in all the provinces of Canada,
Sundays,
New Year s Day,
Good Friday,
Victoria Day,
Dominion Day,
Labour Day,
Remembrance Day,
Christmas Day,
the birthday (or the day fixed by
proclamation for the celebration of the
birthday) of the reigning sovereign,
any day appointed by proclamation to
be observed as a public holiday, or as a
day of general prayer or mourning or day
of public rejoicing or thanksgiving,
throughout Canada,
the day next following New Year s Day,
Christmas Day and the birthday of the
reigning sovereign (if no other day is
fixed by proclamation for the celebration
of the birthday) when such days respec
tively fall on a Sunday ;
(6) in any province, any day appointed by
proclamation of the lieutenant governor of
the province for a public holiday, or for a
fast or thanksgiving within the province,
and any non-juridical day by virtue of a
statute of such province ; and
  * (_c_) in any city, town, municipality or other
organized district, any day appointed as a
civic holiday by resolution of the council,
or other statutory body charged with the
administration of the civic or municipal
affairs of the city, town, municipality or
district. R.S., c. 15, s. 43; 1966-67, c. 12, s. 2.

**44.** Where a bill is payable at sight, or at
a fixed period after date, after sight, or after
the happening of a specified event, the time
of payment is determined by excluding the
day from which the time is to begin to run
and by including the day of payment. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 44.

**45.** Where a bill is payable at sight or at a
fixed period after sight, the time begins to
run from the date of the acceptance if the bill
is accepted, and from the date of noting or
protest if the bill is noted or protested for
non-acceptance, or for non-delivery. R.S., c.
15, s. 45.

**46.** (1) Every bill that is made payable at
a month or months after date becomes due
on the same numbered day of the month in
which it is made payable as the day on which
it is dated, unless there is no such day in the
month in which it is made payable, in which
case it becomes due on the last day of that
month, with the addition, in all cases, of the
days of grace.
(2) The term "month" in a bill means the
calendar month. R.S., c. 15, s. 46.
Capacity and Authority of Parties

**47.** (1) Capacity to incur liability as a
party to a bill is coextensive with capacity to
contract.
(2) Nothing in this section enables a
corporation to make itself liable as drawer,
acceptor or endorser of a bill, unless it is
competent to it so to do under the law for the
time being in force relating to such corpora
tion. R.S., c. 15, s. 47.
an infant, minor, or corporation having no
capacity or power to incur liability on a bill,
the drawing or endorsement entitles the
holder to receive payment of the bill, and to
enforce it against any other party thereto.
R.S., c. 15, s. 48.

**49.** (1) Subject to this Act, where a signa
ture on a bill is forged, or placed thereon
without the authority of the person whose
signature it purports to be, the forged or
unauthorized signature is wholly inoperative,
and no right to retain the bill or to give a
discharge therefor or to enforce payment
thereof against any party thereto can be
acquired through or under that signature,
unless the party against whom it is sought to
retain or enforce payment of the bill is
precluded from setting up the forgery or want
of authority.
(2) Nothing in this section affects the
ratification of an unauthorized signature not
amounting to a forgery.
(3) Where a cheque payable to order is paid
by the drawee upon a forged endorsement out
of the funds of the drawer, or is so paid and
charged to his account, the drawer has no
right of action against the drawee for the
recovery of the amount so paid, nor any
defence to any claim made by the drawee for
the amount so paid, as the case may be, unless
he gives notice in writing of such forgery to
the drawee within one year after he has
acquired notice of the forgery.
(4) In case of failure by the drawer to give
such notice within the said period, such
cheque shall be held to have been paid in due
course as respects every other party thereto or
named therein, who has not previously
instituted proceedings for the protection of
his rights. R.S., c. 15, s. 49.
so. (l) Where a bill bearing a forged or
unauthorized endorsement is paid in good
faith and in the ordinary course of business,
by or on behalf of the drawee or acceptor, the
person by whom or on whose behalf such
payment is made has the right to recover the
amount so paid from the person to whom it
so paid or from any endorser who has
endorsed the bill subsequently to the forged
or unauthorized endorsement if notice of the
being a forged or unauthorized
endorsement is given to each such subsequent
endorser within the time and in the manner
mentioned in this section.
(2) Any such person or endorser from whom
such amount has been recovered has the like
right of recovery against any prior endorser
subsequent to the forged or unauthorized
endorsement.
(3) Such notice of the endorsement being a
forged or unauthorized endorsement shall be
given within a reasonable time after the
person seeking to recover the amount has
acquired notice that the endorsement is forged
or unauthorized, and may be given in the
same manner, and if sent by post may be
addressed in the same way, as notice of protest
or dishonour of a bill may be given or
addressed under this Act. R.S., c. 15, s. 50.
5 1. A signature by procuration operates as
notice that the agent has but a limited
authority to sign, and the principal is bound
by such signature only if the agent in so
signing was acting within the actual limits of
his authority. R.S., c. 15, s. 51.

**52.** (1) Where a person signs a bill as
drawer, endorser or acceptor, and adds words
to his signature indicating that he signs for
or on behalf of a principal, or in a
representative character, he is not personally
liable thereon ; but the mere addition to his
signature of words describing him as an agent,
or as filling a representative character, does
not exempt him from personal liability.
(2) In determining whether a signature on
a bill is that of the principal or that of the
agent by whose hand it is written, the
construction most favourable to the validity
of the instrument shall be adopted. R.S., c.
15, s. 52.
Consideration

**53.** (1) Valuable consideration for a bill
may be constituted by
  * (_a_) any consideration sufficient to support
a simple contract ;
(6) an antecedent debt or liability.
(2) Such a debt or liability is deemed
valuable consideration whether the bill is
payable on demand or at a future time. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 53.

**54.** (i) Where value has, at any time, been
given for a bill, the holder is deemed to be a
holder for value as regards the acceptor and
all parties to the bill who became parties prior
to such time.
(2) Where the holder of a bill has a lien on
it, arising either from contract or by implica
tion of law, he is deemed to be a holder for
value to the extent of the sum for which he
has a lien. R.S., c. 15, s. 54.

**55.** (1) An accommodation party to a bill
is a person who has signed a bill as drawer,
acceptor or endorser, without receiving value
therefor, and for the purpose of lending his
name to some other person.
(2) An accommodation party is liable on
the bill to a holder for value; and it is
immaterial whether, when such holder took
the bill, he knew such party to be an
accommodation party or not. R.S., c. 15, s. 55.
Holder in Due Course

**56.** (1) A holder in due course is a holder
who has taken a bill, complete and regular on
the face of it, under the following conditions,
namely :
  * (_a_) that he became the holder of it before
it was overdue and without notice that it
had been previously dishonoured, if such
was the fact ;
(6) that he took the bill in good faith and
for value, and that at the time the bill was
negotiated to him he had no notice of any
defect in the title of the person who
negotiated it.
(2) In particular the title of a person who
negotiates a bill is defective within the
of this Act when he obtained the
or the acceptance thereof, by fraud,
or force and fear, or other unlawful
or for an illegal consideration, or when
negotiates it in breach of faith, or under
circumstances as amount to a fraud.
c. 15, s. 56.

**57.** A holder, whether for value or not, who
derives his title to a bill through a holder in
due course, and who is not himself a party to
any fraud or illegality affecting it, has all the
rights of that holder in due course as regards
the acceptor and all parties to the bill prior
to that holder. R.S., c. 15, s. 57.

**58.** (1) Every party whose signature
appears on a bill is prima facie deemed to
have become a party thereto for value.
(2) Every holder of a bill is prima facie
deemed to be a holder in due course ; but if,
in an action on a bill it is admitted or proved
that the acceptance, issue or subsequent
negotiation of the bill is affected with fraud,
duress or force and fear, or illegality, the
burden of proof that he is such holder in due
course is on him, unless and until he proves
that, subsequent to the alleged fraud or
illegality, value has in good faith been given
for the bill by some other holder in due
course. R.S., c. 15, s. 58.

**59.** No bill, although given for a usurious
consideration or upon a usurious contract, is
void in the hands of a holder, unless such
holder had at the time of its transfer to him
actual knowledge that it was originally given
for a usurious consideration or upon a usurious
contract. R.S., c. 15, s. 59.
Negotiation
fcQ. (1) A bill is negotiated when it is
transferred from one person to another in
such a manner as to constitute the transferee
the holder of the bill.
(2) A bill payable to bearer is negotiated
by delivery.
(3) A bill payable to order is negotiated by
the endorsement of the holder completed by
delivery. R.S., c. 15, s. 60.

**61.** (1) Where the holder of a bill payable
to his order transfers it for value without
it, the transfer gives the transferee
title as the transferor had in the bill,
and the transferee in addition acquires the
right to have the endorsement of the
transferor.
(2) Where any person is under obligation
to endorse a bill in a representative capacity,
he may endorse the bill in such terms as to
negative personal liability. R.S., c. 15, s. 61.

**62.** (1) An endorsement in order to operate
as a negotiation must be
  * (_a_) written on the bill itself and be signed
by the endorser ;
(6) an endorsement of the entire bill.
(2) An endorsement written on an allonge,
or on a copy of a bill issued or negotiated in
a country where copies are recognized, is
deemed to be written on the bill itself.
(3) A partial endorsement, that is to say,
an endorsement that purports to transfer to
the endorsee a part only of the amount
payable, or that purports to transfer the bill
to two or more endorsees severally, does not
operate as a negotiation of the bill. R.S., c.
15,8.62.

**63.** (1) The simple signature of the endors
er on the bill, without additional words, is a
sufficient endorsement.
(2) Where a bill is payable to the order of
two or more payees or endorsees who are not
partners, all must endorse, unless the one
endorsing has authority to endorse for the
others. R.S., c. 15, s. 63.

**64.** Where, in a bill payable to order, the
payee or endorsee is wrongly designated, or
his name is misspelt, he may endorse the bill
as therein described, adding his proper
signature ; or he may endorse by his own
proper signature. R.S., c. 15, s. 64.

**65.** Where there are two or more endorse
ments on a bill, each endorsement is deemed
have been made in the order in which it
on the bill, until the contrary is
R.S., c. 15, s. 65.

**66.** Where a bill purports to be endorsed
conditionally, the condition may be disre
garded by the payer, and payment to the
endorsee is valid, whether the condition has
been fulfilled or not. R.S., c. 15, s. 66.

**67.** (1) An endorsement may be made in
blank or special.
(2) An endorsement in blank specifies no
endorsee, and a bill so endorsed becomes
payable to bearer.
(3) A special endorsement specifies the
person to whom, or to whose order, the bill is
to be payable.
(4) The provisions of this Act relating to a
payee apply, with the necessary modifications,
to an endorsee under a special endorsement.
(5) Where a bill has been endorsed in blank,
any holder may convert the blank endorse
ment into a special endorsement by writing
above the endorser s signature a direction to
pay the bill to or to the order of himself or
some other person. R.S., c. 15, s. 67.

**68.** (1) An endorsement may also contain
terms making it restrictive.
(2) An endorsement is restrictive that
prohibits the further negotiation of the bill,
or that expresses that it is a mere authority
to deal with the bill as thereby directed, and
not a transfer of the ownership thereof, as,
for example, if a bill is endorsed "Pay D
only", or "Pay D for the account of X", or
"Pay D, or order, for collection".
(3) A restrictive endorsement gives the
endorsee the right to receive payment of the
bill and to sue any party thereto that his
endorser could have sued, but gives him no
power to transfer his rights as endorsee unless
it expressly authorizes him to do so.
(4) Where a restrictive endorsement author
izes further transfer, all subsequent endorsees
take the bill with the same rights and subject
to the same liabilities as the first endorsee
under the restrictive endorsement. U.S., c. 15,
s. 68.

**69.** Where a bill is negotiable in its origin,
it continues to be negotiable until it has been
  * (_a_) restrictively endorsed ; or
(6) discharged by payment or otherwise.
R.S.,c. 15,s.69.

**70.** (1) Where an overdue bill is negotiated,
it can be negotiated only subject to any defect
of title affecting it at its maturity, and
thenceforward no person who takes it can
acquire or give a better title than the person
from whom he took it had.
(2) A bill payable on demand is deemed to
be overdue within the meaning and for the
purposes of this section, when it appears on
the face of it to have been in circulation for
an unreasonable length of time.
(3) What is an unreasonable length of time
for such purpose is a question of fact. R.S., c.
15,s.70.

**71.** Except where an endorsement bears
date after the maturity of the bill, every
negotiation is prima facie deemed to have
been effected before the bill was overdue.
R.S.,c. 15,s. 71.

**72.** Where a bill that is not overdue has
been dishonoured, any person who takes it
with notice of the dishonour takes it subject
to any defect of title attaching thereto at the
time of dishonour; but nothing in this section
affects the rights of a holder in due course.
R.S.,c. 15,s.72.

**73.** Where a bill is negotiated back to the
drawer, or to a prior endorser, or to the
acceptor, such party may, subject to this Act,
reissue and further negotiate the bill, but he
is not entitled to enforce the payment of the
bill against any intervening party to whom
he was previously liable. R.S., c. 15, s. 73.
Rights and Powers of Holder

**74.** The rights and powers of the holder of
bill are as follows :
  * (_a_) he may sue on the bill in his own name ;
(6) where he is a holder in due course, he
holds the bill free from any defect of title
of prior parties, as well as from mere
personal defences available to prior parties
among themselves, and may enforce pay
ment against all parties liable on the bill ;
  * (_c_) where his title is defective, if he
negotiates the bill to a holder in due course,
that holder obtains a good and complete
title to the bill ; and
  * (_d_) where his title is defective, if he obtains
payment of the bill the person who pays
him in due course gets a valid discharge for
the bill. R.S., c. 15, s. 74.
Presentment for Acceptance

**75.** (1) Where a bill is payable at sight or
after sight, presentment for acceptance is
necessary in order to fix the maturity of the
instrument.
(2) Where a bill expressly stipulates that it
shall be presented for acceptance, or where a
bill is drawn payable elsewhere than at the
residence or place of business of the drawee,
it must be presented for acceptance before it
can be presented for payment.
(3) In no other case is presentment for
acceptance necessary in order to render liable
any party to the bill. R.S., c. 15, s. 75.

**76.** Where the holder of a bill, drawn
payable elsewhere than at the place of
business or residence of the drawee, has not
time, with the exercise of reasonable diligence,
to present the bill for acceptance before
presenting it for payment on the day that it
falls due, the delay caused by presenting the
bill for acceptance before presenting it for
payment is excused, and does not discharge
the drawer and endorsers. R.S., c. 15, s. 76.

**77.** (1) Subject to this Act, when a bill
at sight or after sight is negotiated,
holder must either present it for acceptance
negotiate it within a reasonable time.
(2) If the holder does not do so, the drawer
all endorsers prior to that holder are
(3) In determining what is a reasonable
time within the meaning of this section,
regard shall be had to the nature of the bill,
the usage of trade with respect to similar bills,
and the facts of the particular case. R.S., c.
15, s. 77.

**78.** A bill is duly presented for acceptance
that is presented in accordance with the
following rules, namely :
  * (_a_) the presentment must be made by or on
behalf of the holder to the drawee or to
some person authorized to accept or refuse
acceptance on his behalf, at a reasonable
hour on a business day and before the bill
is overdue ;
(6) where a bill is addressed to two or more
drawees who are not partners, presentment
must be made to them all, unless one has
authority to accept for all, when present
ment may be made to him only ;
  * (_c_) where the drawee is dead, presentment
may be made to his personal representative ;
  * (_d_) where authorized by agreement or usage,
a presentment through the post office is
sufficient. R.S., c. 15, s. 78.

**79.** (1) Presentment in accordance with the
aforesaid rules is excused, and a bill may be
treated as dishonoured by non-acceptance,
where
  * (_a_) the drawee is dead, or is a fictitious
person or a person not having capacity to
contract by bill ;
  * (_b_) after the exercise of reasonable diligence,
such presentment cannot be effected ;
  * (_c_) although the presentment has been
irregular, acceptance has been refused on
some other ground.
(2) The fact that the holder has reason to
believe that the bill, on presentment, will be
dishonoured does not excuse presentment.
R.S., c. 15, s. 79.
(2) When a bill is so duly presented for
and is not accepted within the
aforesaid, the person presenting it must
it as dishonoured by non-acceptance.
(3) If he does not so treat the bill as
dishonoured, the holder loses his right of
recourse against the drawer and endorsers.
(4) In the case of a bill payable at sight or
after sight, the acceptor may date his
acceptance thereon as of any of the days
aforesaid but not later than the day of his
actual acceptance of the bill.
(5) If the acceptance is not so dated, the
holder may refuse to take the acceptance and
may treat the bill as dishonoured by non-
acceptance. R.S., c. 15, s. 80.
8 1. A bill is dishonoured by non-acceptance
when
  * (_a_) it is duly presented for acceptance, and
such an acceptance as is prescribed by this
Act is refused or cannot be obtained ; or
(6) presentment for acceptance is excused
and the bill is not accepted. R.S., c. 15,
s. 81.

**82.** Subject to this Act, when a bill is
dishonoured by non-acceptance an immediate
right of recourse against the drawer and
endorsers accrues to the holder, and no
presentment for payment is necessary. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 82.

**83.** (1) The holder of a bill may refuse to
take a qualified acceptance, and if he does
not obtain an unqualified acceptance may
treat the bill as dishonoured by non-accept
ance.
(2) When the drawer or endorser of a bill
receives notice of a qualified acceptance, and
does not within a reasonable time express his
dissent to the holder, he shall be deemed to
have assented thereto. R.S., c. 15, s. 83.

**84.** (1) Where a qualified acceptance is
taken, and the drawer or an endorser has not
expressedly or impliedly authorized the holder
to take a qualified acceptance, or does not
assent thereto, such drawer or
is discharged from his liability on
the bill.
(2) This section does not apply to a partial
acceptance, whereof due notice has been
given. R.S., c. 15, s. 84.
Presentment for Payment

**85.** (1) Subject to this Act, a bill must be
duly presented for payment.
(2) If it is not so presented, the drawer and
endorsers are discharged.
(3) Where the holder of a bill presents it
for payment, he shall exhibit the bill to the
person from whom he demands payment.
R.S., c. 15,s.85.

**86.** (1) A bill is duly presented for payment
that is presented when the bill is
  * (_a_) not payable on demand, on the day it
falls due ; or
(6) payable on demand, within a reasonable
time after its issue, in order to render the
drawer liable, and within a reasonable time
after its endorsement, in order to render the
endorser liable.
(2) In determining what is a reasonable
time within the meaning of this section regard
shall be had to the nature of the bill, the
usage of trade with regard to similar bills and
the facts of the particular case. R.S., c. 15,
s. 86.

**87.** (1) Presentment must be made by the
holder or by some person authorized to receive
payment on his behalf, at the proper place as
hereinafter defined, and either to the person
designated by the bill as payer or to his
representative or some person authorized to
pay or to refuse payment on his behalf, if
with the exercise of reasonable diligence such
person can there be found.
(2) When a bill is drawn upon, or accepted
by two or more persons who are not partners,
and no place of payment is specified,
presentment must be made to them all.
(3) When the drawee or acceptor of a bill is
and no place of payment is specified,
must be made to a personal
if such there is and with the
of reasonable diligence he can be
R.S., c. 15, s. 87.

**88.** A bill is presented at the proper place
  * (_a_) where a place of payment is specified
in the bill or acceptance, and the bill is
there presented ;
  * (_b_) where no place of payment is specified,
but the address of the drawee or acceptor is
given in the bill, and the bill is there
presented ;
  * (_c_) where no place of payment is specified,
and no address given, and the bill is
presented at the drawee s or acceptor s place
of business, if known, and if not, at his
ordinary residence, if known;
  * (_d_) in any other case, if presented to the
drawee or acceptor wherever he can be
found, or if presented at his latest known
place of business or residence. R.S., c. 15,
s. 88.

**89.** Where a bill is presented at the proper
place as aforesaid and after the exercise of
reasonable diligence, no person authorized to
pay or refuse payment can there be found no
further presentment to the drawee or acceptor
is required. R.S., c. 15, s. 89.

**90.** (1) Where the place of payment speci
fied in the bill or acceptance is any city, town
or village, and no place therein is specified,
and the bill is presented at the drawee s or
acceptor s known place of business or known
ordinary residence therein, and if there is no
such place of business or residence, the bill is
presented at the post office, or principal post
office in such city, town or village, such
presentment is sufficient.
(2) Where authorized by agreement or
.,.
usage, a presentment through the post office
sufficient. R.S., c. 15, s. 90.

**91.** (1) Delay in making presentment for
is excused when the delay is caused
or negligence.
(2) When the cause of delay ceases to
presentment must be made with
reasonable diligence. R.S., c. 15, s. 91.

**92.** (1) Presentment for payment is dis
pensed with
  * (_a_) where, after the exercise of reasonable
diligence, presentment, as required by this
Act, cannot be effected ;
(6) where the drawee is a fictitious person ;
  * (_c_) as regards the drawer, where the drawee
or acceptor is not bound, as between himself
and the drawer, to accept or pay the bill,
and the drawer has no reason to believe
that the bill would be paid if presented ;
  * (_d_) as regards an endorser, where the bill
was accepted or made for the accommoda
tion of that endorser, and he has no reason
to expect that the bill would be paid if
presented ;
  * (_e_) by waiver of presentment, express or
implied.
(2) The fact that the holder has reason to
believe that the bill will, on presentment, be
dishonoured, does not dispense with the
necessity for presentment. R.S., c. 15, s. 92.

**93.** (1) When no place of payment is
specified in the bill or acceptance, presentment
for payment is not necessary in order to
render the acceptor liable.
(2) When a place of payment is specified in
the bill or acceptance, the acceptor, in the
absence of an express stipulation to that
effect, is not discharged by the omission to
present the bill for payment on the day that
it matures, but if any suit or action is
instituted thereon before presentation, the
costs thereof shall be in the discretion of the
court.
(3) When a bill is paid the holder shall
forthwith deliver it up to the party paying it.
R.S., c. 15, s. 93.

**94.** (1) Where the address of the acceptor
for honour of a bill is in the same place where
the bill is protested for non-payment, the bill
must be presented to him not later than the
following its maturity.
(2) Where the address of the acceptor for
honour is in some place other than the place
where it is protested for non-payment, the
bill must be forwarded not later than the day
following its maturity for presentment to him.
(3) Delay in presentment or non-present
ment is excused by any circumstance that
would in case of acceptance by a drawee
excuse delay in presentment for payment or
non-presentment for payment. R.S., c. 15,
s. 94.

**95.** (1) A bill is dishonoured by non
payment when
  * (_a_) it is duly presented for payment and
payment is refused or cannot be obtained ;
or
  * (_b_) presentment is excused and the bill is
overdue and unpaid.
(2) Subject to this Act, when a bill is
dishonoured by non-payment, an immediate
right of recourse against the drawer, acceptor
and endorsers accrues to the holder. R.S., c.
15, s. 95.
Notice of Dishonour

**96.** (1) Subject to this Act, when a bill has
been dishonoured by non-acceptance or by
non-payment, notice of dishonour must be
given to the drawer, and each endorser, and
any drawer or endorser to whom such notice
is not given is discharged.
(2) Where a bill is dishonoured by non-
acceptance, and notice of dishonour is not
given, the rights of a holder in due course
subsequent to the omission are not prejudiced
by the omission.
(3) Where a bill is dishonoured by non-
acceptance, and due notice of dishonour is
given, it is not necessary to give notice of a
subsequent dishonour by non-payment, unless
the bill is accepted in the meantime.
(4) In order to render the acceptor of a bill
liable it is not necessary that notice of
dishonour should be given to him. R.S., c. 15,
s.96.

**97.** Notice of dishonour in order to be valid
and effectual must be given
  * (_a_) not later than the juridical or business
day next following the dishonour of the
bill;
(6) by or on behalf of the holder, or by or
on behalf of an endorser, who at the time
of giving it, is himself liable on the bill ;
  * (_c_) in the case of the death, if known to the
party giving notice, of the drawer or
endorser, to a personal representative, if
there is one and with the exercise of
reasonable diligence he can be found ;
  * (_d_) in case of two or more drawers or
endorsers who are not partners, to each of
them, unless one of them has authority to
receive notice for the others. R.S., c. 15,
s. 97.

**98.** (1) Notice of dishonour may be given
  * (_a_) as soon as the bill is dishonoured ;
(6) to the party to whom it is required to
be given, or to his agent in that behalf;
  * (_c_) by an agent either in his own name or
in the name of any party entitled to give
notice whether that party is his principal or
not;
  * (_d_) in writing or by personal communication
and in any terms that identify the bill and
intimate that the bill has been dishonoured
by non-acceptance or non-payment.
(2) A misdescription of the bill does not
vitiate the notice unless the party to whom
the notice is given is in fact misled thereby.
R.S., c. 15, s. 98.

**99.** (1) In point of form
  * (_a_) the return of a dishonoured bill to the
drawer or an endorser is a sufficient notice
of dishonour;
(6) a written notice need not be signed.
(2) An insufficient written notice may be
supplemented and validated by verbal com
munication. R.S., c. 15, s. 99.
iQO. (1) Where a bill when dishonoured is
in the hands of an agent he may himself give
notice to the parties liable on the bill, or he
give notice to his principal, in which
case the principal upon receipt of the notice
has the same time for giving notice as if the
agent had been an independent holder.
(2) Where the agent gives notice to his
principal he must do so within the same time
as if he were an independent holder. R.S., c.
15, s. 100.

**101.** Where a party to a bill receives due
notice of dishonour he has, after the receipt
of such notice, the same period of time for
giving notice to antecedent parties that a
holder has after dishonour. R.S., c. 15, s. 101.
JQ2. A notice of dishonour enures for the
benefit
  * (_a_) of all subsequent holders and of all
prior endorsers who have a right of recourse
against the party to whom it is given, where
given on behalf of the holder;
(6) of the holder and all endorsers subse
quent to the party to whom notice is given,
where given, by or on behalf of an endorser
entitled under this Part to give notice. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 102.

**103.** (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
Act notice of the dishonour of any bill payable
in Canada is sufficiently given if it is
addressed in due time to any party to such
bill entitled to such notice, at his customary
address or place of residence or at the place
at which such bill is dated, unless any such
party has, under his signature, designated
another place, in which case such notice shall
be sufficiently given if addressed to him in
due time at such other place.
(2) Such notice so addressed shall be
sufficient, although the place of residence of
such party is other than either of the places
mentioned in subsection (1), and shall be
deemed to have been duly served and given
for all purposes if it is deposited in any post
office, with the postage paid thereon, at any
time during the day on which presentment
has been made, or on the next following
juridical or business day.
(3) g uc h not i c e is not invalid by reason
only of the fact that the party to whom it is
addressed is dead. R.S., c. 15, s. 103.

**104.** Where a notice of dishonour is duly
s. 104.
1Q5. (1) Delay in giving notice of dis
honour is excused where the delay is caused
by circumstances beyond the control of the
party giving notice, and not imputable to his
default, misconduct or negligence.
(2) When the cause of delay ceases to
operate, the notice must be given with
reasonable diligence. R.S., c. 15, s. 105.

**106.** (1) Notice of dishonour is dispensed
with
  * (_a_) when, after the exercise of reasonable
diligence, notice as required by this Act
cannot be given to or does not reach the
drawer or endorser sought to be charged ;
  * (_b_) by waiver express or implied.
(2) Notice of dishonour may be waived
before the time of giving notice has arrived,
or after the omission to give due notice. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 106.

**107.** Notice of dishonour is dispensed with
as regards the drawer where
  * (_a_) the drawer and drawee are the same
person ;
  * (_b_) the drawee is a fictitious person or a
person not having capacity to contract ;
  * (_c_) the drawer is the person to whom the
bill is presented for payment ;
  * (_d_) the drawee or acceptor is, as between
himself and the drawer, under no obligation
to accept or pay the bill ;
  * (_e_) the drawer has countermanded payment.
R.S., c. 15, s. 107.

**108.** Notice of dishonour is dispensed with
as regards the endorser where
  * (_a_) the drawee is a fictitious person or a
person not having capacity to contract, and
the endorser was aware of the fact at the
time he endorsed the bill ;
  * (_b_) the endorser is the person to whom the
bill is presented for payment ;
  * (_c_) the bill was accepted or made for his
accommodation. R.S.&amp;gt; c. 15, s. 108.
c. 15, s. 109.

**110.** Protest is dispensed with by any
circumstances that would dispense with notice
of dishonour. R.S., c. 15, s. 110.

**111.** (1) Delay in noting or protesting is
excused by circumstances beyond the control
of the holder, and not imputable to his
default, misconduct or negligence.
(2) When the cause of delay ceases to
operate, the bill must be noted or protested
with reasonable diligence. R.S., c. 15, s. 111.

**112.** (1) Where a foreign bill appearing on
the face of it to be such has been dishonoured
by non-acceptance it must be duly protested
for non-acceptance.
(2) Where a foreign bill that has not been
previously dishonoured by non-acceptance is
dishonoured by non-payment, it must be duly
protested for non-payment.
(3) Where a foreign bill has been accepted
only as to part it must be protested as to the
balance.
(4) Where a foreign bill is not protested as
required by this section the drawer and
endorsers are discharged. R.S., c. 15, s. 112.

**113.** Where an inland bill has been
dishonoured, it may, if the holder thinks fit,
be noted and protested for non-acceptance or
non-payment as the case may be; but it is
not necessary to note or protest an inland bill
in order to have recourse against the drawer
or endorsers. 1966-67, c. 12, s. 3.

**114.** Where a bill does not on the face of
it appear to be a foreign bill, protest thereof
in case of dishonour is unnecessary. 1966-67,
c. 12, s. 3.

**115.** A bill that has been protested for
non-acceptance, or a bill of which protest for
non-acceptance has been waived, may be
subsequently protested for non-payment. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 115.

**116.** Where the acceptor of a bill suspends
before it matures, the holder may
cause the bill to be protested for better
against the drawer and endorsers.
R.S., c. 15, s. 116.
1 17. (1) Where a dishonoured bill has been
accepted for honour supra protest, or contains
a reference in case of need, it must be
protested for non-payment before it is pre
sented for payment to the acceptor for honour,
or referee in case of need.
(2) When a bill of exchange is dishonoured
by the acceptor for honour, it must be
protested for non-payment by him. R.S., c.
15, s. 117.

**118.** For the purposes of this Act, where a
bill is required to be protested within a
specified time or before some further proceed
ing is taken, it is sufficient that the bill has
been noted for protest before the expiration
of the specified time or the taking of the
proceeding. R.S., c. 15, s. 118.

**119.** (1) Subject to this Act, when a bill is
protested the protest must be made or noted
on the day of its dishonour.
(2) When a bill has been duly noted, the
formal protest may be extended thereafter at
any time as of the date of the noting. R.S., c.
15, s. 119.

**120.** Where a bill is lost or destroyed, or is
wrongly or accidentally detained from the
person entitled to hold it, or is accidentally
retained in a place other than where payable,
protest may be made on a copy or written
particulars thereof. R.S., c. 15, s. 120.

**121.** (1) A bill must be protested at the
place where it is dishonoured, or at some
other place in Canada situated within five
miles of the place of presentment and
dishonour of such bill.
(2) When a bill is presented through the
O ff j ce ancj re t urn ed by post dishonoured,
it may be protested at the place to which it is
(3) Every protest for dishonour, either for
or non-payment, may be made
the day of such dishonour, and in case of
non-acceptance at any time after non-
acceptance, and in case of non-payment at
any time after three o clock in the afternoon,
local time. R.S., c. 15, s. 121 ; 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 41.

**122.** A protest must contain a copy of the
bill, or the original bill may be annexed
thereto, and the protest must be signed by
the notary making it, and must specify
  * (_a_) the person at whose request the bill is
protested ;
(6) the place and date of protest ;
  * (_c_) the cause or reason for protesting the
bill;
  * (_d_) the demand made and the answer given,
if any ; or
  * (_e_) the fact that the drawee or acceptor
could not be found. R.S., c. 15, s. 122.

**123.** Where a dishonoured bill is authorized
or required to be protested, and the services
of a notary cannot be obtained at the place
where the bill is dishonoured, any justice of
the peace resident in the place may present
and protest such bill and give all necessary
notices and has all the necessary powers of a
notary in respect thereto. R.S., c. 15, s. 123.

**124.** (1) The expense of noting and pro
testing any bill and the postages thereby
incurred, shall be allowed and paid to the
holder in addition to any interest thereon.
(2) Notaries may charge the fees in each
province heretofore allowed them. R.S., c. 15,
s. 124.

**125.** (1) The Forms in the schedule may
be used in noting or protesting any bill and
in giving notice thereof.
(2) A copy of the bill and endorsement may
be included in the Forms, or the original bill
may be annexed and the necessary changes
in that behalf made in the Forms. R.S., c. 15,
s. 125.

**126.** Notice of the protest of any bill
payable in Canada is sufficiently given and
is sufficient and deemed to have been duly
given and served, if given during the day on
protest has been made or on the next
this Part for notice of dishonour. R.S., c. 15,
s. 126.
Liabilities of Parties

**127.** A bill, of itself, does not operate as
an assignment of funds in the hands of the
drawee available for the payment thereof,
and the drawee of a bill who does not accept
as required by this Act is not liable on the
instrument. R.S., c. 15, s. 127.

**128.** The acceptor of a bill, by accepting
it, engages that he will pay it according to
the tenor of his acceptance. R.S., c. 15, s. 128.

**129.** The acceptor of a bill by accepting it
is precluded from denying to a holder in due
course,
  * (_a_) the existence of the drawer, the genu
ineness of his signature, and his capacity
and authority to draw the bill ;
  * (_b_) in the case of a bill payable to drawer s
order, the then capacity of the drawer to
endorse, but not the genuineness or validity
of his endorsement ; or
  * (_c_) in the case of a bill payable to the order
of a third person, the existence of the payee
and his then capacity to endorse, but not
the genuineness or validity of his endorse
ment. R.S., c. 15, s. 129.

**130.** The drawer of a bill, by drawing it,
  * (_a_) engages that on due presentment it
shall be accepted and paid according to its
tenor, and that if it is dishonoured he will
compensate the holder or any endorser who
is compelled to pay it, if the requisite
proceedings on dishonour are duly taken;
and
  * (_b_) is precluded from denying to a holder
in due course the existence of the payee
and his then capacity to endorse. R.S., c.
15, s. 130.
13 1. No person is liable as drawer, endorser
or acceptor of a bill who has not signed it as
such ; but when a person signs a bill otherwise
than as a drawer or acceptor he thereby incurs
liabilities of an endorser to a holder in
course and is subject to all the provisions
this Act respecting endorsers. R.S., c. 15,

**131.**

**132.** (1) Where a person signs a bill in a
trade or assumed name he is liable thereon as
if he had signed it in his own name.
(2) The signature of the name of a firm is
equivalent to the signature, by the person so so
signing, of the names of all persons liable as
partners in that firm. R.S., c. 15, s. 132.

**133.** The endorser of a bill by endorsing
it, subject to the effect of any express
stipulation hereinbefore authorized,
  * (_a_) engages that on due presentment it
shall be accepted and paid according to its
tenor, and that if it is dishonoured he will
compensate the holder or a subsequent
endorser who is compelled to pay it, if the
requisite proceedings on dishonour are duly
taken;
  * (_b_) is precluded from denying to a holder
in due course the genuineness and regularity
in all respects of the drawer s signature and
all previous endorsements; and
  * (_c_) is precluded from denying to his immedi
ate or a subsequent endorsee that the bill
was, at the time of his endorsement, a valid
and subsisting bill, and that he had then a
good title thereto. R.S., c. 15, s. 133.

**134.** Where a bill is dishonoured, the
measure of damages, which shall be deemed
to be liquidated damages, are
  * (_a_) the amount of the bill ;
(6) interest thereon from the time of
presentment for payment, if the bill is
payable on demand, and from the maturity
of the bill in any other case ; and
  * (_c_) the expenses of noting and protest. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 134.

**135.** In case of the dishonour of a bill the
holder may recover from any party liable on
the bill, the drawer who has been compelled
and an endorser who has been compelled to
the bill may recover from the acceptor or
from the drawer, or from a prior endorser, the
damages aforesaid. R.S., c. 15, s. 135.

**136.** In the case of a bill that has been
dishonoured abroad in addition to the
damages aforesaid, the holder may recover
from the drawer or any endorser, and the
drawer or an endorser who has been compelled
to pay the bill may recover from any party
liable to him, the amount of the re-exchange
with interest thereon until the time of
payment. R.S., c. 15, s. 136.

**137.** (1) Where the holder of a bill payable
to bearer negotiates it by delivery without
endorsing it, he is called a "transferor by
delivery".
(2) A transferor by delivery is not liable on
the instrument. R.S., c. 15, s. 137.

**138.** A transferor by delivery who negoti
ates a bill thereby warrants to his immediate
transferee, being a holder for value, that
  * (_a_) the bill is what it purports to be ;
(6) he has a right to transfer it ; and
  * (_c_) at the time of transfer he is not aware
of any fact that renders it valueless. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 138.
Discharge of Bill
\39. (1) A bill is discharged by payment
in due course by or on behalf of the drawee
or acceptor.
(2) Payment in due course means payment
made at or after the maturity of the bill to
the holder thereof in good faith and without
notice that his title to the bill is defective.
(3) Where an accommodation bill is paid in
due course by the party accommodated, the
bill is discharged. R.S., c. 15, s. 139.

**140.** Subject to the provisions aforesaid as
to an accommodation bill, when a bill is paid
by the drawer or an endorser, it is not
discharged; but,
  * (_a_) where a bill payable to, or to the order
of, a third party is paid by the drawer, the
where a bill payable to drawer s order is
paid by the drawer, the party paying it is
remitted to his former rights as regards the
acceptor or antecedent parties, and he may,
if he thinks fit, strike out his own and
subsequent endorsements, and again negoti
ate the bill. R.S., c. 15, s. 140.

**141.** When the acceptor of a bill is or
becomes the holder of it, at or after its
maturity, in his own right, the bill is
discharged. R.S., c. 15, s. 141.

**142.** (1) When the holder of a bill, at or
after its maturity, absolutely and uncondi
tionally renounces his rights against the
acceptor, the bill is discharged.
(2) The liabilities of any party to a bill
may in like manner be renounced by the
holder before, at, or after its maturity.
(3) A renunciation must be in writing,
unless the bill is delivered up to the acceptor.
(4) Nothing in this section affects the rights
of a holder in due course without notice of
renunciation. R.S., c. 15, s. 142.

**143.** (1) Where a bill is intentionally
cancelled by the holder or his agent, and the
cancellation is apparent thereon, the bill is
discharged.
(2) I n like manner, any party liable on a
bill may be discharged by the intentional
cancellation of his signature by the holder or
his agent.
(3) In such case, any endorser who would
have had a right of recourse against the party
whose signature is cancelled is also discharged.
R.S., c. 15, s. 143.

**144.** A cancellation made unintentionally,
or under a mistake, or without the authority
of the holder, is inoperative ; but where a bill
or any signature thereon appears to have been
cancelled, the burden of proof lies on the
who alleges that the cancellation was
the assent of all parties liable on the bill, the
bill is voided, except as against a party who
has himself made, authorized, or assented to
the alteration and subsequent endorsers.
(2) Where a bill has been materially altered,
but the alteration is not apparent, and the
bill is in the hands of a holder in due course,
such holder may avail himself of the bill as if
it had not been altered, and may enforce
payment of it according to its original tenor.
R.S., c. 15, s. 145.

**146.** In particular any alteration
  * (_a_) of the date ;
(6) of the sum payable ;
  * (_c_) of the time of payment ;
  * (_d_) of the place of payment ; or
  * (_e_) by the addition of a place of payment
without the acceptor s assent where a bill
has been accepted generally ;
is a material alteration. R.S., c. 15, s. 146.
Acceptance and Payment for Honour

**147.** Where a bill of exchange has been
protested for dishonour by non-acceptance, or
protested for better security, and is not
overdue, any person, not being a party
already liable thereon, may, with the consent
of the holder, intervene and accept the bill
supra protest, for the honour of any party
liable thereon, or for the honour of the person
for whose account the bill is drawn. R.S., c.
15, s. 147.

**148.** A bill may be accepted for honour for
part only of the sum for which it is drawn.
R.S., c. 15, s. 148.

**149.** Where an acceptance for honour does
not expressly state for whose honour it is
made, it is deemed to be an acceptance for
honour of the drawer. R.S., c. 15, s. 149.

**150.** Where a bill payable after sight is
for honour, its maturity is calculated
the date of protesting for non-acceptance,
and not from the date of the acceptance for
honour. R.S., c. 15, s. 150.

**151.** An acceptance for honour supra
protest, in order to be valid, must be
  * (_a_) written on the bill, and indicate that it
is an acceptance for honour; and
(6) signed by the acceptor for honour. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 151.

**152.** (1) The acceptor for honour of a bill
by accepting it engages that he will, on due
presentment, pay the bill according to the
tenor of his acceptance, if it is not paid by
the drawee, if it has been duly presented for
payment and protested for non-payment, and
he receives notice of these facts.
(2) The acceptor for honour is liable to the
holder and to all parties to the bill subsequent
to the party for whose honour he has accepted.
R.S., c. 15, s. 152.

**153.** (1) Where a bill has been protested
for non-payment, any person may intervene
and pay it supra protest for the honour of
any party liable thereon, or for the honour of
the person for whose account the bill is drawn.
(2) Where two or more persons offer to pay
a bill for the honour of different parties, the
person whose payment will discharge most
parties to the bill has the preference.
(3) Where the holder of a bill refuses to
receive payment supra protest, he loses his
right of recourse against any party who would
have been discharged by such payment.
(4) The payer for honour, on paying to the
holder the amount of the bill and the notarial
expenses incidental to its dishonour, is entitled
to receive both the bill itself and the protest.
(5) Where the holder does not on demand
notarial act of honour, which may be appended
to the protest or form an extension of it.
(2) The notarial act of honour must be
founded on a declaration made by the payer
for honour, or his agent in that behalf,
declaring his intention to pay the bill for
honour, and for whose honour he pays. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 154.

**155.** Where a bill has been paid for honour,
all parties subsequent to the party for whose
honour it is paid are discharged, but the
payer for honour is subrogated for, and
succeeds to both the rights and duties of the
holder as regards the party for whose honour
he pays, and all parties liable to that party.
R.S.,c. 15, s. 155.
Lost Instruments

**156.** (i) Where a bill has been lost before
it is overdue, the person who was the holder
of it may apply to the drawer to give him
another bill of the same tenor, giving security
to the drawer, if required, to indemnify him
against all persons whatever, in case the bill
alleged to have been lost is found again.
(2) Where the drawer, on request as afore
said, refuses to give such duplicate bill, he
may be compelled to do so. R.S., c. 15, s. 156.

**157.** In any action or proceeding upon a
bill, the court or a judge may order that the
loss of the instrument shall not be set up, if
an indemnity is given to the satisfaction of
the court or judge against the claims of any
other person upon the instrument in question.
R.S., c. 15, s. 157.
Bill in a Set

**158.** (1) Where a bill is drawn in a set,
each part of the set being numbered, and
c. 15, s. 158.

**159.** (i) Where the holder of a set endorses
two or more parts to different persons, he is
liable on every such part, and every endorser
subsequent to him is liable on the part he has
himself endorsed as if the said parts were
separate bills.
(2) Where two or more parts of a set are
negotiated to different holders in due course,
the holder whose title first accrues is, as
between such holders, deemed the true owner
of the bill; but nothing in this subsection
affects the rights of a person who in due
course accepts or pays the part first presented
to him.
(3) Where the drawee accepts more than
one part, and such accepted parts get into the
hands of different holders in due course, he is
liable on every such part as if it were a
separate bill.
(4) When the acceptor of a bill drawn in a
set pays it without requiring the part bearing
his acceptance to be delivered up to him, and
that part at maturity is outstanding in the
hands of a holder in due course, he is liable
to the holder thereof.
(5) Subject to this section, where any one
part of a bill drawn in a set is discharged by
payment or otherwise, the whole bill is
discharged. R.S., c. 15, s. 159.
Conflict of Laws

**160.** (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3),
where a bill drawn in one country is
negotiated, accepted or payable in another,
the validity of the bill as regards requisites in
form is determined by the law of the place of
issue, and the validity as regards requisites in
form of the supervening contracts, such as
acceptance, or endorsement, or acceptance
supra protest, is determined by the law of the
place where the contract was made.
(2) Where a bill is issued out of Canada, it
is not invalid by reason only that it is not
stamped in accordance with the law of the
enforcing payment thereof, be treated as valid
as between all persons who negotiate, hold or
become parties to it in Canada. R.S., c. 15,
s. 160.

**161.** Subject to this Act, the interpretation
of the drawing, endorsement, acceptance or
acceptance supra protest of a bill, drawn in
one country and negotiated, accepted or
payable in another, is determined by the law
of the place where such contract is made ; but
where an inland bill is endorsed in a foreign
country, the endorsement shall, as regards the
payer, be interpreted according to the law of
Canada. R.S., c. 15, s. 161.

**162.** The duties of the holder with respect
to presentment for acceptance or payment
and the necessity for or sufficiency of a
protest or notice of dishonour, are determined
by the law of the place where the act is done
or the bill is dishonoured. R.S., c. 15, s. 162.

**163.** Where a bill is drawn out of but
payable in Canada, and the sum payable is
not expressed in the currency of Canada, the
amount shall, in the absence of some express
stipulation, be calculated according to the
rate of exchange for sight drafts at the place
of payment on the day the bill is payable.
R.S., c. 15, s. 163.

**164.** Where a bill is drawn in one country
and is payable in another, the due date
thereof is determined according to the law of
the place where it is payable. R.S., c. 15,
s. 164.

## PART III

## CHEQUES ON A BANK

**165.** (1) A cheque is a bill of exchange
drawn on a bank, payable on demand.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this
the provisions of this Act applicable to
bill of exchange payable on demand apply
a cheque.
(3) Where a cheque is delivered to a bank
deposit to the credit of a person and the
credits him with the amount of the
cheque, the bank acquires all the rights and
powers of a holder in due course of the cheque.
R.S., c. 15, s. 165; 1966-67, c. 12, s. 4.

**166.** (1) Subject to this Act,
  * (_a_) where a cheque is not presented for
payment within a reasonable time of its
issue, and the drawer or the person on
whose account it is drawn had the right at
the time of such presentment, as between
him and the bank, to have the cheque paid,
and suffers actual damage through the
delay, he is discharged to the extent of such
damage, that is to say, to the extent to
which such drawer or person is a creditor of
such bank to a larger amount than he would
have been had such cheque been paid;
(6) the holder of such cheque, as to which
such drawer or person is discharged, shall
be a creditor, in lieu of such drawer or
person, of such bank to the extent of such
discharge, and entitled to recover the
amount from it.
(2) I n determining what is a reasonable
time, within this section, regard shall be had
to the nature of the instrument, the usage of
trade and of banks, and the facts of the
particular case. R.S., c. 15, s. 166.

**167.** The duty and authority of a bank to
pay a cheque drawn on it by its customer, are
determined by
  * (_a_) countermand of payment;
(6) notice of the customer s death. R.S., c.
15, s. 167.
Crossed Cheques

**168.** (1) Where a cheque bears across its
face an addition of
  * (_a_) the word "bank" between two parallel
transverse lines, either with or without the
words "not negotiable" ; or
(6) two parallel transverse lines simply,
either with or without the words "not
negotiable";
such addition constitutes a crossing, and the
of the name of a bank, either with
without the words "not negotiable", that
addition constitutes a crossing, and the cheque
is crossed specially and to that bank. R.S., c.
15, s. 168.

**169.** (1) A cheque may be crossed generally
or specially by the drawer.
(2) Where a cheque is uncrossed, the holder
may cross it generally or specially.
(3) Where a cheque is crossed generally, the
holder may cross it specially.
(4) Where a cheque is crossed generally or
specially, the holder may add the words Not
negotiable.
(5) Where a cheque is crossed specially the
bank to which it is crossed may again cross it
specially to another bank for collection.
(6) Where an uncrossed cheque, or a cheque
crossed generally, is sent to a bank for
collection, it may cross it specially to itself.
(7) A crossed cheque may be reopened or
uncrossed by the drawer writing between the
transverse lines, the words Pay cash, and
initialling the same. R.S., c. 15, s. 169.

**170.** (1) A crossing authorized by this Act
is a material part of the cheque.
(2) It is not lawful for any person to
obliterate or, except as authorized by this Act,
to add to or alter the crossing. R.S., c. 15,
s. 170.

**171.** Where a cheque is crossed specially
to more than one bank, except when crossed
to another bank as agent for collection, the
bank on which it is drawn shall refuse
payment thereof. R.S., c. 15, s. 171.

**172.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), where
the bank on which a cheque so crossed is
drawn, nevertheless pays the cheque, or pays
a cheque crossed generally otherwise than to
a bank, or, if crossed specially, otherwise than
to the bank to which it is crossed, or to the
bank acting as its agent for collection, it is
liable to the true owner of the cheque for any
he sustains owing to the cheque having
so paid.
(2) Where a cheque is presented for payment
does not at the time of presentment
appear to be crossed, or to have had a crossing
that has been obliterated, or to have been
added to or altered otherwise than as
authorized by this Act, the bank paying the
cheque in good faith and without negligence
shall not be responsible or incur any liability,
nor shall the payment be questioned by reason
of the cheque having been crossed, or of the
crossing having been obliterated or having
been added to or altered otherwise than as
authorized by this Act, and of payment
having been made otherwise than to a bank
or to the bank to which the cheque is or was
crossed, or to the bank acting as its agent for
collection, as the case may be. R.S., c. 15,
s. 172.

**173.** Where the bank, on which a crossed
cheque is drawn, in good faith and without
negligence pays it, if crossed generally, to a
bank, or, if crossed specially, to the bank to
which it is crossed, or to a bank acting as its
agent for collection, the bank paying the
cheque and, if the cheque has come into the
hands of the payee, the drawer shall respec
tively be entitled to the same rights and be
placed in the same position as if payment of
the cheque had been made to the true owner
thereof. R.S., c. 15, s. 173.

**174.** Where a person takes a crossed cheque
that bears on it the words "not negotiable",
he does not have and is not capable of giving
a better title to the cheque than the person
from whom he took it had. R.S., c. 15, s. 174.

**175.** Where a bank, in good faith and
without negligence, receives for a customer
payment of a cheque crossed generally or
specially to itself, and the customer has no
title, or a defective title thereto, the bank
does not incur any liability to the true owner
of the cheque by reason only of having
received such payment. R.S., c. 15, s. 175.

## PART IV

## PROMISSORY NOTES

**176.** (i) A promissory note is an uncondi
tional promise in writing made by one person
to another, signed by the maker, engaging to
pay, on demand or at a fixed or determinable
future time, a sum certain in money, to, or to
the order of, a specified person, or to bearer.
(2) An instrument in the form of a note
payable to the maker s order is not a note
within the meaning of this section, unless it
is endorsed by the maker.
(3) A note is not invalid by reason only
that it contains also a pledge of collateral
security with authority to sell or dispose
thereof. R.S., c. 15, s. 176.

**177.** (1) A note that is, or on the face of it
purports to be, both made and payable within
Canada, is an inland note.
(2) Any other note is a foreign note. R.S.,
c. 15, s. 177.

**178.** A promissory note is inchoate and
incomplete until delivery thereof to the payee
or bearer. R.S., c. 15, s. 178.

**179.** (1) A promissory note may be made
by two or more makers, and they may be
liable thereon jointly, or jointly and severally,
according to its tenor.
(2) Where a note bears the words "I promise
to pay", and is signed by two or more persons,
it is deemed to be their joint and several note.
R.S., c. 15, s. 179.

**180.** (1) Where a note payable on demand
has been endorsed, it must be presented for
payment within a reasonable time of the
endorsement.
(2) In determining what is a reasonable
time, regard shall be had to the nature of the
instrument, the usage of trade, and the facts
of the particular case. R.S., c. 15, s. 180.

**181.** Where a promissory note payable on
demand that has been endorsed is not
presented for payment within a reasonable
time, the endorser is discharged, but if it has,
the assent of the endorser, been delivered
a collateral or continuing security it need
be presented for payment so long as it is
held as such security. R.S., c. 15, s. 181.

**182.** Where a note payable on demand is
negotiated, it is not deemed to be overdue,
for the purpose of affecting the holder with
defects of title of which he had no notice, by
reason that it appears that a reasonable time
for presenting it for payment has elapsed
since its issue. R.S., c. 15, s. 182.

**183.** (i) Where a promissory note is in the
body of it made payable at a particular place,
it must be presented for payment at that
place.
(2) In such case the maker is not discharged
by the omission to present the note for
payment on the day that it matures; but if
any suit or action is instituted thereon against
him before presentation, the costs thereof are
in the discretion of the court.
(3) When no place of payment is specified
in the body of the note, presentment for
payment is not necessary in order to render
the maker liable. R.S., c. 15, s. 183.

**184.** (1) Presentment for payment is neces
sary in order to render the endorser of a note
liable.
(2) Where a note is in the body of it made
payable at a particular place, presentment at
that place is necessary in order to render an
endorser liable.
(3) When a place of payment is indicated
by way of memorandum only, presentment at
that place is sufficient to render the endorser
liable, but a presentment to the maker
elsewhere, if sufficient in other respects, shall
also suffice. R.S., c. 15, s. 184.

**185.** The maker of a promissory note, by
making it,
  * (_a_) engages that he will pay it according to
its tenor; and
(6) is precluded from denying to a holder
in due course the existence of the payee
and his then capacity to endorse. R.S., c.
15, s. 185.

**186.** (1) Subject to this Part, and except
as provided by this section, the provisions of
this Act relating to bills of exchange apply,
with the necessary modifications, to promis
sory notes.
(2) In the application of such provisions
the maker of a note shall be deemed to
correspond with the acceptor of a bill, and
the first endorser of a note shall be deemed
to correspond with the drawer of an accepted
bill payable to drawer s order.
(3) The provisions of this Act with respect
to bills and relating to
  * (_a_) presentment for acceptance ;
(6) acceptance;
  * (_c_) acceptance supra protest ; and
  * (_d_) bills in a set ;
do not apply to notes. R.S., c. 15, s. 186.

**187.** Where a foreign note is dishonoured,
protest thereof is unnecessary, except for the
preservation of the liabilities of endorsers.
R.S., c. 15, s. 187.

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
NOTING FOB NON-ACCEPTANCE
(Copy of Bill and Endorsements)
On the day of 19 , the above bill
was, by me, at the request of.... ... presented for accep
tance to E.F., the drawee, personally (or, at his residence, office
or usual place of business), in the city (town or village) of
"
and I received for answer: ". The
said bill is therefore noted for non-acceptance.
A.B.,
Notary Public
(Date and place) 19
I A -n \
Due notice of the above was by me served upon &amp;lt; p W f the
j endorser, } Personally, on the day of....
(or, at his residence, office or usual place of business) in
, on the day of (or, by de
positing such notice, directed to him at in Her
Majesty s post office in the city, (town or village) of ,
on the ... day of.... , and prepaying the post
age thereon).
A.B,
Notary Public
(Date and place) 19

## FORM B
PROTEST FOR NON-ACCEPTANCE OR FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A BILL
PAYABLE GENERALLY
(Copy of Bill and Endorsements)
On this day of , in the year 19 ,
I, A.B., notary public for the Province of , dwell
ing at ...., in the Province of , at the re
quest of , did exhibit the original bill of exchange,
whereof a true copy is above written, unto E.F., the
i acceDto C thereof personally (or, at his residence, office or
usual place of business) in , and, speaking to him
self (or his wife, his clerk, or his servant, etc.,) did demand
j acceptance | , , ( he |
/payment [ thereof; unto which demand j ghe ^ answered:
Wherefore I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do protest against the acceptor,
drawer and endorsers (or drawer and endorsers) of the said bill,
and other parties thereto or therein concerned, for all exchange,
re-exchange, and all costs, damages and interest, present and to
for want of.... of the said biIL
j payment** (
All of which I attest by my signature.
Notary Public

## FORM C
PROTEST FOR NON-ACCEPTANCE OR FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A BILL
PAYABLE AT A STATED PLACE
(Copy oj Bill and Endorsements)
On this .................... day of ...................... in the year 19 ....... , I,
A.B., notary public for the Province of ...................... , dwelling
at .... ...., in the Province of ...... , at the request of
............ , did exhibit the original bill of exchange whereof
( drawee } , ,
a true copy is above written, unto r^.r ., the j acceT)tor r there
of, at ................ , being the stated place where the said bill
is payable, and there speaking to ... did demand
tne unto which demand he an
] Davment
swered: "...
Wherefore I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do protest against the accep
tor, drawer and endorsers (or drawer and endorsers) of the
said bill and all other parties thereto or therein concerned, for
all exchange, re-exchange, costs, damages and interest, present
, , \ acceptance / , ,,
and to come for want of i f of the said bill.
^
All of which I attest by my signature.
A.B.,
Notary Public

## FORM D
PROTEST FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A BILL NOTED, BUT NOT PROTESTED
FOR NON-ACCEPTANCE
// the protest is made by the same notary who noted the bill,
it should immediately follow the act of noting and memoran
dum oj service thereof, and begin with the words "and after
wards on, etc.," continuing as in the last preceding Form, but
introducing between the words "did" and "exhibit" the word
"again," and in a parenthesis, between the words "written" and
"unto," the words: "and which bill was by me duly noted for
non-acceptance on the day of ".
But if the protest is not made by the same notary, then it
should follow a copy oj the original bill and endorsements and
noting marked on the bill and then in the protest introduce,
in a parenthesis, between the words "written" and "unto," the
words: "and which bill was on the day of ,
by , notary public for the Province of
noted for non-acceptance, as appears by his note thereof
marked on the said bill".

## FORM E
PROTEST FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A NOTE PAYABLE GENERALLY
(Copy of Note and Endorsements)
On this day of , in the year 19 , I,
A.B., notary public for the Province of , dwelling
.... , in the Province of , at the request
, did exhibit the original promissory note, where
a true copy is above written, unto the promisor,
personally (or, at his residence, office or usual place of busi
ness), in , and speaking to himself (or his wife, his
clerk or his servant, etc.,) did demand payment thereof; unto
"
which demand , &amp;gt; answered: ".
j
Wherefore I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do protest against the promisor
and endorsers of the said note, and all other parties thereto or
therein concerned, for all costs, damages and interest, present
and to come, for want of payment of the said note.
All of which I attest by my signature.
A.B.,
Notary Public

## FORM F
PBOTEST FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A NOTE PAYABLE AT A STATED PLACE
(Copy oj Note and Endorsements)
On this day of , in the year 19 , I,
A.B., notary public for the Province of ...., dwelling
at.... ...., in the Province of.... .. , at the request
of , did exhibit the original promissory note, where
of a true copy is above written, unto ... .the promisor,
at ...., being the stated place where the said note is
payable, and there, speaking to.... ... did demand pay
ment of the said note, unto which demand he answered:
Wherefore I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do protest against the promisor
and endorsers of the said note, and all other parties thereto or
therein concerned, for all costs, damages and interest, present
and to come, for want of payment of the said note.
All of which I attest by my signature.
A.B.,
Notary Public

## FORM G
NOTARIAL NOTICE OF A NOTING, OR OF A PROTEST FOR NON-
ACCEPTANCE, OR OF A PROTEST FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A BILL
(Place and Date of Noting or oj Protest)
1st.
To P.Q. (the drawer)
at
Sir,
Your bill of exchange for $ , dated at.... ..the
day of , upon E.F., in favour of C.D.,
... ...days after } . f was this day, at the
* date \
( noted / by me ( non-acceptance \
request of. y
\ protested \ for \ non-payment \ .
( sight,
(or in favour of C.D.,) payable days after
/date :1
and by you endorsed, was this day at the request of
( noted / . ,. ( non-acceptance }
duly by me for
j protested [ j non-payment \ .
A.B.,
Notary Public

## FORM H
NOTARIAL NOTICE OF PROTEST FOR NON-PAYMENT OF A NOTE
(Place and Date oj Protest)
To
at
Sir,
Mr. P.Q. s promissory note for $ , dated at
( days }
the day of payable &amp;lt; &amp;lt;i months &amp;gt; after
Von /
date to j -p [or order, and endorsed by you, was this day,
at the request of , duly protested by me for non
payment. A.B.,
Notary Public
FORM I
NOTARIAL SERVICE OF NOTICE OF A PROTEST FOR NON-ACCEPTANCE
OR NON-PAYMENT OF A BILL, OR NOTE
(to be subjoined to the Protest)
And afterwards, I, the aforesaid protesting notary public,
did serve due notice, in the form prescribed by law, of the
, . , ( non-acceptance ) ( bill /
foregoing protest for j non   payi ent [ of the j note [ thereby
protested upon j c g the j en ^ser ( P ersonall y. on the
day of (or, at his residence, office or usual place of
business) in , on the day of ;
(or, by depositing such notice, directed to the said \ nr\ i
I o.JJ., )
at , in Her Majesty s post office in on
the day of , and prepaying the postage
thereon) .
In testimony whereof, I have, on the last mentioned day and
year, at aforesaid, signed these presents.
A.B.,
Notary Public
FORM J
PROTEST BY A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE (WHERE THERE IS NO NOTARY)
FOR NON-ACCEPTANCE OF A BILL, OR NON-PAYMENT OF A
BILL OR NOTE
(Copy oj Bill or Note and Endorsements)
On this ... ... day of , in the year 19 , I,
N.O., one of Her Majesty s justices of the peace for the
District (or County, etc.), of , in the Province of
, dwelling at (or near) the village of ,
in the said District, there being no practising notary public at
or near the said village (or any other legal cause), did, at the
request of... ...and in the presence of well
known unto me, exhibit the original ] t [ whereof a true
/ drawer \
copy is above written unto P.Q., the &amp;lt; acceptor &amp;gt; thereof,
1 promisor /
personally (or at his residence, office or usual place of business)
in and speaking to himself (his wife, his clerk or
his servant, etc.,) did demand ] t thereof, unto which
j acceptance j
"
demand , answered: ".
] [
Wherefore I, the said justice of the peace, at the request afore
said, have protested, and by these presents do protest against
/drawer and endorsers \
bill
the &amp;lt; promisor and endorsers &amp;gt; of the said and
(acceptor, drawer and endorsers) note
all other parties thereto and therein concerned, for all exchange,
re-exchange, and all costs, damages and interest, present and to
come, for want of , acceptance payment ) \ of , the . , said ., j \ bill note
All which is by these presents attested by the signature of
the said (the witness) and by my hand and seal.
(Signature oj the witness)
(Signature and seal oj the Jf.)
R.S., c. 15, Sen.
