Trade Act. R.S., c. 18, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"board of trade" includes chamber of com
merce, and, for the purposes of the
appointment of weighers of grain under
this Act, means any board of trade or
chamber of commerce incorporated under
any Act of the Parliament of Canada, or of
the legislature of the former Province of
Canada, or of the legislature of any province
of Canada ;
"council" includes "board of directors" and
trustees of the governing body, howsoever
designated ;
"district" means
  * (_a_) any judicial district, or temporary
judicial district, that is set apart or
constituted as such by any Act of the
Parliament of Canada, or by any Act of
the legislature of any province of Canada,
or by any proclamation issued under or by
virtue of any such Act, and also any city,
county, town or village, to any of which
may be added one or more townships
selected for that purpose, or any group of
such municipalities or divisions, within and
for which a board of trade is established
under this Act,
  * (_b_) in the Provinces of Saskatchewan,
Alberta and Newfoundland, also any elec-
toral district, as constituted for elections to
the legislative assembly for any of the said
Provinces, within and for which a board of
trade is established,
  * (_c_) in the Province of British Columbia and
in the Yukon Territory, also a mining
division, or any tract of country described
as extending to certain specified distances
and in certain specified directions from any
stated point, within and for which a board
of trade is established. R.S., c. 18, s. 2.

## PARTI
Incorporation

**3.** (1) Any number of persons, not less than
thirty, who are merchants, traders, brokers,
mechanics, manufacturers, managers of banks
or insurance agents, carrying on business in,
or resident in a district that has a population
of not less than two thousand five hundred,
or in the Province of British Columbia or in
the Yukon Territory not less than one
thousand five hundred, may associate them
selves together as a board of trade and
appoint a secretary.
(2) No persons shall within any district in
which there is a board of trade that is
registered under this Act, use the words
"Board of Trade" or "Chamber of Commerce"
as part of the name under which they are
incorporated or doing business, or any other
words so similar as to be liable to be confused
therewith, unless they are incorporated as a
body corporate and politic under this Act or
under a special or general Act of the
Parliament of Canada.
(3) Any person violating subsection (2) is
guilty of an offence, and is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars and costs, and not less than
one hundred dollars and costs, or to impris
onment for a term not exceeding six months,
or to both fine and imprisonment. R.S., c. 18,

**3.**

**4.** Upon application by the board of trade
for any district under its corporate seal, signed
the president and secretary, and duly
by by-law of the corporation, the
Governor in Council may change the bound
aries of that district. R.S., c. 18, s. 4.

**5.** The persons so associating themselves
together as a board of trade shall, under their
hands and seals, make a certificate specifying
the name assumed by the association, and by
which it shall be known, also the name as
hereinbefore defined, of the district in which
it is situated and its business is transacted,
and the name of the person by them appointed
secretary to the said board of trade. R.S., c.
18, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Where the district is situated wholly
or partly within a district for which there is
an existing board of trade, the certificate shall
be accompanied by a statutory declaration of
two or more of the persons signing it as to
  * (_a_) the facts in that regard ;
  * (_b_) the population of the existing district ;
  * (_c_) the population of the proposed new
district ;
  * (_d_) the population of the existing district
as diminished by the proposed change ;
  * (_e_) any facts or considerations that made
the establishment of the new board expedi
ent.
(2) In such cases
  * (_a_) the existing board of trade shall be
afforded an opportunity to show cause
against the proposed change, and
(6) the certificate shall be recorded only
with the sanction and authority of the
Governor in Council.
(3) Subsection (2) applies to any application
for incorporation under a special or general
Act of the Parliament of Canada, with the
right to use the names "Board of Trade" or
"Chamber of Commerce" or any other name
so similar as to be liable to be confused
therewith. R.S., c. 18, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The certificate referred to in section
5 shall be acknowledged before a notary
public, commissioner for taking affidavits, or
justice of the peace, by the secretary of the
said board of trade, and shall be forwarded to
the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
who shall cause the same to be
in a register to be kept for that
purpose.
(2) A copy thereof, duly certified by the
Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs,
is evidence of the existence of such association.
R.S., c. 18, s. 7; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 38; 1967-68,
c. 16, s. 10.

**8.** (1) The persons named as corporators in
the certificate referred to in section 5, and
such other persons as afterwards join them,
are hereby authorized to carry into effect the
objects for which the association was con
stituted, and to exercise the powers and
privileges conferred by this Act.
(2) Such persons and their associates, succes
sors and assigns, by the name and style
specified in the said certificate, are a body
corporate and politic, with power to acquire,
sell and convey any real estate, necessary for
the objects of the association. R.S., c. 18, s. 8.

**9.** When the foregoing provisions have
been complied with, it is competent for a
majority of the persons named as corporators
in the certificate referred to in section 5, to
hold a meeting for the election of a president,
vice-president and members of the council
and, without notice, to make and enact such
by-laws, rules and regulations as are here
inafter mentioned. R.S., c. 18, s. 9.
lo. The usual place of meeting of the
corporation shall be held to be the legal
domicile thereof, at which service of any
notice or process may be made. R.S., c. 18,
s. 10.
Officers

**11.** The officers of every board of trade
shall be a president, vice-president and
secretary, who, together with not less than
eight other members, shall constitute a council,
which shall be called "The Council of the
Board of Trade of ", (adding the
name of the district as hereinbefore defined),
and who shall have the powers and perform
the duties hereinafter mentioned. R.S., c. 18,
s. 11.

**12.** At the first quarterly meeting held in
or a majority of them, shall elect, in
the manner prescribed by the by-laws, from
among the members of the corporation, a
president, vice-president and secretary, and
at least eight other members of the council,
who, with the president, vice-president and
secretary, shall form the council of the
corporation, and shall hold their offices until
others are elected in their stead, at the next
first quarterly meeting of the ensuing year,
as aforesaid, or until they are removed from
office, or vacate it under the by-laws of the
corporation. U.S., c. 18, s. 12.

**13.** Where an election pursuant to section
12 does not take place at the first quarterly
meeting, the corporation is not thereby
dissolved, but the election may be held at
any general meeting of the corporation, called
in the manner hereinafter provided, and the
members of the council in office shall remain
members until the election is held. R.S., c. 18,
s. 13.

**14.** The president and vice-president shall,
before entering upon the duties of their office,
take and subscribe before the mayor of the
city or town constituting the district, or before
any justice of the peace, an oath in the
following form :
I swear that I will faithfully and truly perform my duty
as of the board of trade, and that I will, in
all matters connected with the discharge of such duty, do
all things, and such things only, as I shall truly and
conscientiously believe to be adapted to promote the
objects for which the said board was constituted, according
to the true intent and meaning of the same. So help me
God.
R.S., c. 18, s. 14.

**15.** (1) Where a member of the council dies
or resigns his office, or is absent for six months
continuously from the meetings of the council,
the council may, at any meeting thereof, elect
a member of the corporation to be a member
of the council, in the place of the member
who has died or resigned, or is absent.
(2) The new member shall be elected by a
majority of the members of the council present
at any meeting of the council, if there is a
quorum present at such meeting.
(3) T ne member so elected shall hold office
until the next annual election. R.S., c. 18,
s. 15.
Meetings

**16.** At any annual or general meeting of
the corporation, whether for the purpose of
electing members of the council or for any
other purpose, a majority of members present
at such meeting are competent to do and
perform all acts that, either under this Act or
under any by-law of the corporation, are or
shall be directed to be done at any such
general meeting. R.S., c. 18, s. 16.

**17.** (1) The members of the said corpora
tion shall hold general quarterly meetings in
each year, at some place within the district.
(2) Notice of such meetings, naming the
time and place, shall be given by the secretary
of the council for the time being, at least
three days prior to the meetings, through one
newspaper or otherwise, as is thought necessary
by the council. R.S., c. 18, s. 17.

**18.** The council, or a majority of them,
may call a general meeting of the corporation
for any of the purposes of this Act by
  * (_a_) a notice inserted in one or more
newspapers published within the district,
one day prior to the meeting, or
(6) a circular letter to each member, signed
by the secretary of the corporation, and
mailed one day prior to the meeting. R.S.,
c. 18, s. 18.

**19.** (1) The meetings of the council shall
be open to all members of the corporation
who may attend such meetings, but they shall
take no part in any proceedings thereat.
(2) Minutes of the proceedings at all
meetings, whether of the council or of the
corporation, shall be entered, in books to be
kept for that purpose, by the secretary of the
corporation.
(3) The entry of such minutes shall be
signed by the president or vice-president or
the person who presides at the meeting.
(4) The books mentioned in subsection (2)
shall be open at all reasonable hours to any
of the corporation free of any charge.
c. 18, s. 19.
Membership

**20.** (1) Every person resident in the district,
who is or has been a merchant, broker, trader,
mechanic, manufacturer, manager of a bank
or insurance agent, is eligible to become a
member of the corporation.
(2) At any general meeting of the corpora
tion any member of the corporation may
propose any person referred to in subsection
(1) as a candidate for becoming a member of
the corporation.
(3) If the proposal is carried by a majority
of two-thirds of the members of the corporation
then present, such person is from that time
onward a member of the corporation, and has
all the rights and is subject to all the
obligations of the other members.
(4) Any person who is not a merchant or
trader, broker, mechanic, manufacturer,
manager of a bank or insurance agent, is
eligible to become a member of the corpora
tion, in the manner aforesaid, if such person
is recommended by the council of the board
of trade at any general meeting. R.S., c. 18,
s. 20.

**21.** Any member of the corporation who
intends to retire therefrom or to resign his
membership, may do so, at any time, upon
giving to the secretary ten days notice in
writing, of his intention, and upon discharging
any lawful liability that is standing upon the
books of the corporation against him at the
time of such notice. R.S., c. 18, s. 21.
By-laws

**22.** The majority of the members of the
corporation present at any general meeting
may make by-laws and regulations for the
government of the corporation providing for
  * (_a_) the admission and subscriptions of
members ;
(6) the imposing of penalties ;
  * (_c_) the expulsion or retirement of members ;
  * (_d_) the management of its council, officers
and affairs ;
  * (_e_) the guidance of the board of arbitrators
mentioned in this Act ;
  * (_f_) the fixing of the date and place of the
regular meetings of the council ;
  * (_g_) the powers to be exercised by the
council; and
  * (_h_) all other matters concerning the govern
ment of the corporation not inconsistent
with this Act or the laws of Canada. R.S.,
c. 18, s. 22.

**23.** By-laws made pursuant to section 22
are binding on all members of the corporation,
its officers and employees, and all other
persons lawfully under its control. R.S., c. 18,
s. 23.

**24.** No by-law shall be made by the
corporation, except as hereinbefore men-
tioned, without notice in writing thereof
having been given by one member and
seconded by another member at a previous
meeting, and duly entered in the books of the
corporation as a minute of the corporation.
R.S., c. 18, s. 24.
Subscriptions and Dues

**25.** (1) The following sums, namely,
  * (_a_) all subscriptions of members due to the
corporation, under any by-law ;
(6) all penalties incurred under any by-law
by any person bound thereby ; and
  * (_c_) all other sums of money due to the
corporation ;
shall be paid to the secretary thereof, and in
default of payment are recoverable in an
action brought in the name of the corporation.
(2) It shall only be necessary, in such action,
to allege that the person is indebted to the
corporation in the sum of money, the amount
of the arrearage on account of the subscription,
penalty or otherwise, whereby an action has
accrued to the corporation by virtue of this
Act. R.S.,c. 18,s.25.

**26.** On the trial or hearing of any such
action, it shall be sufficient for the corporation
to prove that
  * (_a_) the defendant, at the time the demand
was made, was or had been a member of
the corporation, and
(6) the amount claimed as the subscription,
penalty or otherwise, was standing unpaid
upon the books of the corporation. R.S., c.
18, s. 26.
Powers of Council

**27.** (1) The council may hold meetings,
from time to time, and adjourn them when
necessary, and may, at such meetings, transact
such business as is, by this Act or by the by
laws of the corporation, assigned to it.
(2) The meetings of the council shall be
convened by the secretary, at the instance of
the president, or upon the request of any two
members of the council. R.S., c. 18, s. 27.

**28.** (1) The council has, in addition to the
powers hereby expressly conferred on it, such
powers as are assigned to it by any by-law of
the corporation not inconsistent with this Act.
(2) The council shall not have or be given
by any by-law the power of enacting or
altering any by-law or admitting any member.
R.S., c. 18, s. 28.

**29.** Five or more members of council,
lawfully met, constitute a quorum, and a
majority of the quorum may do all things
within the powers of the council. R.S., c. 18,
s. 29.
3Q. (1) At all meetings of the council, and
all general meetings of the corporation, the
president, or in his absence, the vice-president,
or if both are absent, any member of the
council then present who is chosen for the
occasion, shall preside.
(2) In all cases of equality of votes upon
any division, the presiding officer has a
casting vote. R.S., c. 18, s. 30.

**31.** (1) The council shall frame such by
laws, rules and regulations as appear to it
best adapted to promote the welfare of the
corporation and the purposes of this Act, and
shall submit them for adoption, at a general
meeting of the corporation, called for that
purpose, in the manner hereinbefore provided.
(2) The council may also make by-laws
requiring that every weigher employed in
connection with a grain elevator within the
district for which such board of trade is
established shall be licensed and shall take
capacity in such manner as the council deems
proper, and may, if satisfied as to his fitness
to perform his duties, issue to such applicant
a licence to act as weigher. R.S., c. 18, s. 31.
Board of Arbitration

**32.** (1) At the time hereby appointed for
the election of the council, and in the same
manner, the members of the corporation may
elect from their number twelve persons who
shall form a board which shall be called the
Board of Arbitration.
(2) Any three of such persons have power
to arbitrate upon, and make their award in
any commercial case or difference that is
voluntarily referred to them by the parties
concerned.
(3) Where the parties agree to bind them
selves, by bond or otherwise, to submit the
matter in dispute between them to the decision
of the Board of Arbitration, the submission
shall be understood to be made to any three
members of the Board, who may, either by
the special order of the Board, or by virtue of
any general rules adopted by the Board, or
under any by-law of the corporation touching
the consideration of any cases so submitted,
be appointed to hear, arbitrate and decide
upon the cases so submitted to them.
(4) A decision made under subsection (3) is
binding upon the Board and the parties
making the submission.
(5) The submission shall be according to
Form A in the schedule, or to the same effect.
R.S., c. 18, s. 32.

**33.** (1) The several members of the Board
shall, before they act as such, take and
subscribe, before the president or vice-presi
dent of the corporation, an oath in Form B
in the schedule, that they will faithfully,
impartially and diligently perform their
duties as members of the Board.
(2) The oath shall be kept among the
of the corporation. R.S., c. 18,

**33.**

**34.** Any member of the council may, at
same time, be a member of the Board of
R.S., c. 18, s. 34.

**35.** (1) The three members appointed to
hear any case submitted for arbitration, as
aforesaid, or any two of them have full power
to examine, upon oath, which oath any one
of such three members is hereby empowered
to administer, any party or witness who,
appearing before them, is so examined, and
shall give their award thereupon in writing.
(2) The award binds the parties according
to the terms of the submission and the
provisions of this Act. R.S., c. 18, s. 35.
Licensing of Weighers

**36.** (1) Where the council of a board of
trade has passed a by-law requiring that every
weigher employed in connection with a grain
elevator within the district for which the
board of trade is established shall be licensed
and shall take the oath hereinafter provided,
the board of trade may cause any person who
makes application to be licensed as a weigher
at grain elevators to be examined as to his
capacity in such manner as the council deems
proper.
(2) The council may, if satisfied of the
fitness of the applicant to perform his duties,
issue a licence to him to act as a weigher.
(3) In such case every person who acts as a
weigher at a grain elevator within such district
is, unless he has been so licensed and has
taken the oath of office mentioned in section
37, liable, on summary conviction, to a fine
of ten dollars for each offence. R.S., c. 18,
s. 36.

**37.** (1) Every weigher licensed under sec
tion 36 shall forthwith take and subscribe
before a justice of the peace an oath of office
in the form or to the effect following :
I, A.B., do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
faithfully, truly and impartially, to the best of my skill
and ability, execute and perform the duties of weigher. So
help me God.
(2) The oath so taken shall remain in the
custody of the justice of the peace adminis
tering it, and any copy thereof certified by
such oath having been taken and subscribed
in accordance with this Act. R.S., c. 18, s. 37.
Affiliation with Canadian Chamber of
Commerce

**38.** (1) Any board of trade duly registered
as aforesaid under this Act, may become
affiliated with the Canadian Chamber of
Commerce, on duly complying with all the
terms and requirements of that organization,
and may be represented at its annual meeting.
(2) The delegates or representatives to the
annual meeting of the Canadian Chamber of
Commerce shall be elected at a general
meeting, duly convened, or by the council of
the board of trade desiring such representa
tion. R.S., c. 18, s. 38.
Change of Name

**39.** Upon application by the corporation
under its corporate seal, and signed by its
president and secretary, the name of the
corporation may be changed, if the Governor
in Council is satisfied that the change is not
desired for any improper purpose and is not
otherwise objectionable. R.S., c. 18, s. 39.

**40.** A change of name is conclusively
established by the insertion in the Canada
Gazette by the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs of a notice of the change.
R.S., c. 18, s. 40; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 38; 1967-68,
c. 16, s. 10.

**41.** No rights or liabilities of the corpora
tion are affected by a change of its name, and
all actions commenced by or against the
corporation prior to the change may be
proceeded with by or against it under its
former name. R.S., c. 18, s. 41.
Annual Summary

**42.** (1) Every board of trade shall, on or
before the 1st day of June in every year,
a summary as of the 31st day of March
specifying the following particu
  * (_a_) name of the board of trade ;
(6) the manner in which the board of trade
is incorporated, giving the date thereof;
  * (_c_) the date upon which the last general
meeting of the members of the board of
trade was held ; and
  * (_d_) the names and addresses of the persons
who at the date of the return compose the
council of the board of trade.
(2) The summary shall be completed and
filed in duplicate in the Department of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs on or before
the 1st day of June in every year.
(3) Each of the duplicates shall be signed
by the secretary of the board of trade.
(4) Where a board of trade makes default
in complying with any requirements of this
section, it is liable on summary conviction to
a fine not exceeding twenty dollars for every
day during which the default continues.
(5) Every member of the council of the said
board of trade who knowingly or wilfully
authorizes or permits the default is liable to
the like penalty. R.S., c. 18, s. 42; 1966-67, c.
25,8.38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.
Dissolution

**43.** Upon its being made to appear that a
board of trade has become incapable of
exercising or has ceased to exercise its
franchises, the Governor in Council may,
upon and subject to such terms and conditions
as he thinks just and proper, dissolve the
board as a corporation. R.S., c. 18, s. 43.

## PART II
Formation of Board

**44.** (1) Any number of persons, not less
than thirty, who are directly or indirectly
engaged or interested in trade, commerce or
the economic and social welfare of any
district, whether residents of such a district or
not, may associate themselves together as a
of trade for the purpose of promoting
improving trade and commerce and the
economic, civic and social welfare of the
(2) If and when the provisions of sections 5
and 7 have been complied with, section 8
applies to the association. R.S., c. 18, s. 44.

**45.** The persons referred to in section 44
forward to the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs, together with the
certificate of formation, a memorandum of
agreement in duplicate, which shall set out
the by-laws or regulations of the proposed
board of trade and shall, more particularly,
provide by-laws or regulations upon the
following matters :
  * (_a_) conditions of membership, including
societies or companies becoming members
of the corporation ;
(6) mode of holding meetings, rights of
voting and of making, repealing or amend
ing by-laws or regulations ;
  * (_c_) appointment and removal of the direc
tors, trustees, committee or officers, and
their respective powers and remuneration ;
  * (_d_) provision for audit of accounts and
appointment of auditors ;
  * (_e_) determination whether or how members
may withdraw from the corporation ; and
  * (_f_) provision for custody of the seal of, and
certifying of documents issued by, the
corporation. R.S., c. 18, s. 45 ; 1966-67, c. 25,
s. 38 ; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.

**46.** (1) The by-laws and regulations
referred to in section 45 may be amended
from time to time at a general meeting duly
called for that purpose.
(2) A variation or amendment shall not be
in force or acted upon until the approval of
the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs has been obtained. R.S., c. 18, s. 46;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.

**47.** An existing board of trade heretofore
incorporated by or under any Act of the
Parliament of Canada, or any Act of the
legislature of the former Province of Canada,
or of any province of Canada, may apply
under this Part for establishing the board of
trade under this Part. R.S., c. 18, s. 47.

**48.** A board of trade established under this
Part has all the powers and authorities
conferred on a board of trade by Part I, and
is subject to all the provisions of Part I except
in so far as those provisions may be varied by
this Part. R.S., c. 18, s. 48.

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
Know all men, that the undersigned .and the
undersigned (if there are more parties, that is, more separate
interests, mention them) having a difference as to the respec
tive rights of the said parties, as in the case hereunto subjoined,
have agreed and bound themselves under a penalty of
... dollars, to perform and abide by the award to be
made by the Board of Arbitration of the Board of Trade of
in the case aforesaid, under the penalty aforesaid,
to be paid by the party refusing to perform or abide by such
award to the party ready and willing to perform or abide by it.
In witness whereof, the said parties have hereunto set their
hands and affixed their seals at the of
on the day of , A.D. 19
A.B. [L.S.]
C.D. [L.S.]

## FORM B
I swear that I will faithfully, impartially and diligently per
form my duty as a member of the Board of Arbitration of the
Board of Trade of , and that I will, in all cases in
which I shall act as arbitrator, give a true and just award,
according to the best of my judgment and ability, without fear,
favour or affection, of or for any person whomsoever. So help
God. R.S., c. 18, Sch.
