National Railways Act. 1955, c. 29, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Canadian Government Railways" means
  * (_a_) the lines of railway or parts thereof,
(6) the property, works or interests, and
  * (_c_) the powers, rights or privileges
the management and operation of which
are entrusted to the National Company by
any subsisting order in council made under
section 11 of chapter 13 of the Statutes of
Canada, 1919, section 19 of chapter 172 of
the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927,
section 18 of chapter 40 of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1952, or section 19 of
this Act, and, unless expressly excluded,
includes all properties, works, interests,
powers, rights and privileges incidental to
those so entrusted and commonly used,
operated and enjoyed in connection there
with;
"Canadian National Railways" comprises
  * (_a_) the National Company,
(6) all the companies in Canada mentioned
or referred to in the schedule and any
company formed by any consolidation or
amalgamation of any two or more of such
companies, and
  * (_c_) all companies in Canada controlled
directly or indirectly by the National
Company and declared by the Governor in
Council to be comprised in Canadian
National Railways ;
"Commission" means the Canadian Transport
Commission ;
"Her Majesty" means Her Majesty in right
of Canada ;
"National Company" means the Canadian
National Railway Company continued by
this Act ;
"National Railways" comprises the Canadian
Government Railways, Canadian National
Railways and all the companies, not in
Canada, mentioned or referred to in the
schedule. 1955, c. 29, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 69,
s. 94.

## ORGANIZATION

**3.** The company incorporated under the
name of Canadian National Railway Com
pany by chapter 13 of the Statutes of Canada,
1919, the company formed by the amalgama
tion of Canadian National Railway Company
and The Grand Trunk Railway Company of
Canada, and the Canadian National Railway
Company referred to in chapter 33 of the
Statutes of Canada, 1932-33, are hereby
declared to be and to have been one and the
same company, and the said company is
hereby continued under the name of Canadian
National Railway Company. 1955, c. 29, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The capital stock of the National
Company consists of such shares as are
specified in the Canadian National Railways
Capital Revision Act, chapter 311 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952.
(2) Unless otherwise ordered by the Gover
nor in Council, all capital stock of the
National Company shall be issued to the
Minister of Finance and shall be held by him
in trust for Her Majesty. 1955, c. 29, s. 4.

**5.** The head office of the National Com
pany shall be at such place in Canada as the
Governor in Council determines. 1955, c. 29,

**5.**

**6.** (1) Subject to this Act, the direction and
of the National Company and its
undertaking are vested in a Board of Directors.
(2) The Board of Directors of the National
Company shall consist of twelve directors
each of whom shall be a Canadian citizen.
(3) Each director shall be appointed by the
Governor in Council for a term not exceeding
three years, but a director may at any time
be removed for cause.
(4) A director whose term of office has
expired remains a director until his successor
is appointed, and is eligible for re-appoint
ment.
(5) No stock ownership is necessary to
qualify a director.
(6) The Governor in Council may appoint
one of the directors of the National Company
to be Chairman of the Board of Directors;
the Chairman shall devote his whole time to
the performance of his duties and except as
provided in section 11 shall not be an officer
nor after his appointment as Chairman of the
Board of Directors become, otherwise than by
re-election, a director of any company other
than a company comprised in National
Railways or a company owned or controlled
by Her Majesty directly or indirectly by stock
ownership or otherwise. 1955, c. 29, s. 6 ; 1960-
61, c. 28, s. 1.

**7.** (1) Subject to the approval of the
Governor in Council, the directors shall
appoint a President of the National Company,
who may be the Chairman of the Board of
Directors or a person other than one of the
directors ; the President holds office during
the pleasure of the directors.
(2) The President of the National Company
is the Chief Executive Officer of National
Railways with such powers, authorities and
duties as may be defined by by-law or
resolution of the directors, approved of by the
Governor in Council.
(3) The President of the National Company
the President of every other company
in Canadian National Railways.
1955, c. 29, s. 7.

**8.** (1) Except as provided in this section,
the President or a director shall not be paid
any salary, remuneration or other emolument
by any company comprised in National
Railways.
(2) A director may be paid by the National
Company a sum fixed by the Governor in
Council, and the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, if he is not the President, may in
addition be paid by the National Company a
salary or other remuneration fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(3) The President may be paid by the
National Company a salary or other remu-
nerat "ation approved by the Governor in Council.
(4) The President and a director may be
paid proper expenditures incurred while
engaged in and upon the affairs of National
Railways.
(5) A director is not entitled to receive or
to be paid a pension from any railway
company during his term of office. 1955, c. 29,
s. 8.

**9.** (1) A director of the National Company
is not, in respect of his office or any act done
or omitted to be done by him in the execution
of his office,
  * (_a_) under any personal responsibility to
any shareholder, director, officer or
employee of any company comprised in
National Railways or to any other person,
or
(6) except with the approval of the Governor
in Council, subject to any pecuniary penalty
under any statute.
(2) Except as provided in section 8, the
appointment of an officer or employee of
National Railways as a director of the
National Company does not affect any rights,
privileges or benefits to which he may be
entitled under any pension Act or pension
regulations relating to National Railways,
for .all pension purposes he shall be
to be an officer or employee within
meaning of such Act or regulations. 1955,
29, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Meetings of the Board of Directors
may be held at such times and places as are
fixed by by-law or as the Chairman deter
mines.
(2) Seven directors constitute a quorum.
(3) At any meeting regularly called at
which all the directors are not present but at
which there is a quorum, the directors present
are competent to exercise all the powers vested
in the Board of Directors, and the act of a
majority of the directors present shall be
deemed the act of the Board of Directors.
(4) A vacancy in the Board of Directors
does not impair the right of the remaining
directors to act.
(5) If the Chairman of the Board of
Directors is absent or unable to act or the
office is vacant, the remaining directors may
elect one of their number to be the acting
Chairman during such absence, inability or
vacancy; the acting Chairman is also during
the same period the acting Chairman of the
Board of Directors of every other company
comprised in Canadian National Railways,
and he may be paid by the National Company
such additional remuneration, if any, as the
Governor in Council approves.
(6) The by-laws of the National Company
may provide for an executive committee of
the Board of Directors, to exercise such powers
as the by-laws may specify. 1955, c. 29, s. 10;
1960-61, c. 28,s.2.
1 1. (1) Notwithstanding any statute, char
ter, letters patent or order in council, the
directors and the Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the National Company are
respectively the directors and the Chairman
of the Board of Directors of every other
company comprised in Canadian National
Railways, and in relation to such companies
they have the like powers, rights, privileges
and immunities and are subject to the like
duties, responsibilities and restrictions as in
relation to the National Company.
(2) Where the ownership, interest or right
to operate or the control of the National
Company or any element of National Rail
ways is, as respects any company in Canada,
partial only, the Board of Directors of the
National Company shall elect the directors of
such company from among the directors,
officers or employees of the National Compa
ny, in such number as the Board of Directors
of the National Company are entitled to elect
to the Board of Directors of such company.
(3) Every officer or employee of the
National Company elected to the Board of
Directors of any company under subsection
(2) has all the powers, rights, privileges and
immunities and is subject to all the duties,
responsibilities and restrictions as those in
this Act provided for with relation to the
directors of the National Company, but the
Board of Directors of the National Company
may remove and replace such officer or
employee from the Board of Directors of such
company at any time without notice and
without assigning cause. 1955, c. 29, s. 11.

**12.** Whenever under the provisions of the
Railway Act, or any other statute or law, the
approval, sanction or confirmation by share
holders is required with respect to any
company comprised in Canadian National
Railways, such approval, sanction or confir
mation may be given by the Governor in
Council. 1955, c. 29, s. 12.

**13.** The National Company may use the
name "Canadian National Railways" as a
collective or descriptive designation of all
lines of railway or railway works comprised
in National Railways. 1955, c. 29, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Governor in Council may
(2) The Governor in Council may declare
any company in Canada that is directly or
indirectly controlled by the National Compa
ny to be comprised in Canadian National
Railways. 1955, c. 29, s. 14.

## APPLICATION OF OTHER ACTS

**15.** Notwithstanding anything in the Gov
ernment Railways Act or any other Act, the
provisions of the Railway Act respecting the
construction, maintenance and operation of a
railway, except sections 107 to 184, apply to
any Canadian Government Railway that
would, but for the passing of this Act, be
subject to the Government Railways Act, but
only for the period during which the manage
ment and operation of that railway is
entrusted to the National Company, and all
the provisions of the Expropriation Act, and
all legal procedure in matters arising under
the Expropriation Act apply, during that
period, to such Canadian Government Rail
way in like manner as if this Act had not
been passed. 1955, c. 29, s. 15.

**16.** All the provisions of the Railway Act
apply to the National Company, except
  * (_a_) sections 43 to 50, 107 to 118, 121 to 128,
130 to 133, 140 to 143 and 145 to 184, and
(6) such other provisions as are inconsistent
with this Act or the Expropriation Act as
made applicable to the National Company
by this Act. 1955, c. 29, s. 16.

**17.** (1) The Expropriation Act applies muta
tis mutandis to the National Company, subject
as follows :
  * (_a_) any plan deposited under the Expro
priation Act may be signed by the Minister
of Transport on behalf of the National
Company, or by the President or any Vice-
President of the National Company, and
no description need be deposited ;
(6) the land shown upon such plan so
deposited thereupon vests in the National
Company, unless the plan indicates that
the land taken is required for a limited
time only or that a limited estate or interest
therein is taken, in which case the right of
possession for such limited time or such
limited estate or interest vests in the
National Company upon the deposit of the
plan;
  * (_c_) subject to paragraph (d), the compensa
tion payable in respect of any lands or
interests therein taken by the National
Company shall be ascertained in accordance
with the Expropriation Act, and for that
purpose the Exchequer Court has jurisdic
tion in all cases relating to or arising out of
any such expropriation or taking and may
make rules and regulations governing the
institution, by or against the National
Company, of judicial proceedings and the
conduct thereof ;
  * (_d_) notwithstanding section 16, in any case
where the offer of the National Company
does not exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars, compensation may be ascertained
under the Railway Act, beginning with
notice of expropriation to the opposite
party; and
  * (_e_) the amount of any judgment awarding
compensation is payable by the National
Company.
(2) Lands or interests in lands required by
any company comprised in Canadian Nation
al Railways may be acquired for such company
by the National Company under this Act.
1955, c. 29, s. 17.

## WORKS FOR THE GENERAL ADVANTAGE OF

## CANADA

**18.** (1) The railway or other transportation
works in Canada of the National Company
and of every company mentioned or referred
to in Part I or Part II of the schedule and of
every company formed by any consolidation
or amalgamation of any two or more of such
companies are hereby declared to be works
for the general advantage of Canada.
(2) The companies incorporated by subsec-
tion 7 ( 2 ) of the Canadian National-Canadian
Pacific Act are hereby continued and such
companies are in respect of all their affairs
to this Act.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the
expression "railway or other transportation
works" does not include any works operated
under the authority of section 27. 1955, c. 29,
s. 18.

## MANAGEMENT OF OTHER LINES

**19.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
order in council entrust to the National
Company the management and operation of
  * (_a_) any lines of railway or parts thereof,
and any property or works of whatever
description, or interests therein, and any
powers, rights or privileges over or with
respect to any railways, properties or works,
or interests therein, that may be vested in
or owned, controlled or occupied by Her
Majesty, or
  * (_b_) any part of anything referred to in
paragraph (a) or any right or interest
therein
upon such terms and subject to such regula
tions and conditions as the Governor in
Council may decide.
(2) The management and operation of
anything entrusted to the National Company
under subsection (1) shall continue during the
pleasure of the Governor in Council, and are
subject to termination or variation in whole
or in part by the Governor in Council.
(3) Any order of the Governor in Council
made under this section shall be laid before
Parliament within ten days from the date
thereof or, if Parliament is then not in session,
within ten days from the commencement of
the next ensuing session. 1955, c. 29, s. 19.

**20.** Where Her Majesty owns the entire
stock or the controlling interest in the stock
of any railway company, or of any other
company having corporate powers or proper
ties that may be conveniently exercised or
operated by the National Company, the
Governor in Council may transfer, or cause
to be transferred, such capital stock or any
part thereof to the National Company, or
may by proxies or otherwise enable the
National Company or any nominee of the
thereof at any meeting of shareholders,
such terms and conditions as the
in Council determines. 1955, c. 29,

**20.**

## POWERS AND DUTIES

**21.** The Board of Directors shall so direct,
provide and procure that all freight destined
for export by sea that is consigned within
Canada for carriage to National Railways
either at point of origin or between that point
and the sea shall, unless it has been by its
shippers specifically routed otherwise, be
exported through Canadian seaports. 1955, c.
29,s.21.

**22.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
^ n Council and upon any location sanctioned
by the Minister of Transport, the National
Company may construct, maintain and oper
ate railway lines, branches and extensions
  * (_a_) if the line, branch or extension does not
exceed twenty miles in length, and
  * (_fe_) in any other case, if Parliament has, in
respect of the construction thereof, author
ized the necessary expenditure or the
guarantee of an issue of the National
Company s securities.
(2) A copy of any plan and profile made in
respect of any completed railway shall be
deposited with the Commission. 1955, c. 29, s.
22 ; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 77.

**23.** (1) A company or railway comprised
in National Railways has the right to run its
trains over the tracks of any other company
comprised in National Railways.
(2) With the approval of the Governor in
Council and on the recommendation of the
Minister of Transport, agreements for any
one or more of the purposes specified in
(3) may be entered into
  * (_a_) between any two or more companies
comprised in National Railways, and
(6) between any company comprised in
National Railways and any company
approved or designated for the purpose by
the Governor in Council.
(3) The purposes for which agreements may
be entered into under subsection (2) are as
follows :
  * (_a_) amalgamation;
(6) the purchase, sale or leasing of the
railway or the undertaking in whole or in
part of either party to the agreement ;
  * (_c_) those purposes that are specified in
section 94 of the Railway Act, except
running rights where such rights otherwise
exist under subsection (1) ;
  * (_d_) the making of half-interest agreements;
and
  * (_e_) the granting by one party to the other
of rights and privileges, whether by way of
joint ownership or joint operation of any
company or of any undertaking in whole or
in part or otherwise in respect of the lines,
tracks, terminal facilities and appurtenances
of either party.
(4) Any agreement made for any of the
purposes mentioned in paragraphs (3)(c), (d)
and (e) may be for a fixed period or in
perpetuity.
(5) A company approved or designated
under paragraph (2)(fe) has the power or
capacity to enter into the agreement.
(6) Sections 92 and 93 of the Railway Act
apply mutatis mutandis to any agreement for
amalgamation entered into under subsection
(2), except that where the National Company
is a party to an agreement for amalgamation
entered into under subsection (2), the amal
gamated company is the National Company.
(7) A copy of any agreement made for any
of the purposes mentioned in paragraphs
(3)(a) and (6) shall be filed in the office of the
Registrar General of Canada, and thereupon
(9) N O application to or recommendation
by the Commission is necessary with respect
to any agreement made under subsection (2).
(10) Nothing in this section shall be con-
, , . , , ,. .
strued to authorize the amalgamation of any
company comprised in National Railways
w j t ^ any company comprised in Pacific
Railways as defined in section 3 of chapter 39
of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, nor
to authorize the unified management and
control of the railway system forming part of
National Railways with the railway system
forming part of Pacific Railways as so defined.
1955, c. 29, s. 23; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**24.** The Governor in Council, upon the
recommendation of the Minister of Transport,
may declare any company comprised in
Canadian National Railways, other than the
National Company, to have ceased to exist;
and upon the making of such declaration all
property, powers, rights, obligations and
liabilities of any such company that existed
on the effective date of the declaration shall
be deemed to have been as of that day the
property, powers, rights, obligations and
liabilities of the National Company or such
other company comprised in Canadian
National Railways as is designated by the
Governor in Council. 1955, c. 29, s. 24.

**25.** (1) The National Company may carry
on all business that is customarily carried on
by express companies, including, without
restricting the generality of the foregoing, the
handling of express money orders or other
methods of transmitting or handling money,
securities, or other articles of value.
(2) All express traffic handled by the
National Company shall move or be dealt
with by the National Company on the same
terms and conditions as to the liability of the
National Company or otherwise as are from
time to time approved by the Commission
respect to similar traffic when handled
by express companies, subject to such varia
tions therein as may be necessary in view of
the handling of the traffic by a railway
company instead of an express company.
1955, c. 29, s. 25.

**26.** (1) The National Company may estab
lish, construct or acquire by purchase, lease or
otherwise and may maintain and operate
telecommunication facilities, systems and
services in Canada and elsewhere.
(2) The National Company may carry on a
public telecommunication business and may
enter into arrangements with other telecom
munication companies or Her Majesty for the
exchange and transmission of messages or for
the maintenance or working, in whole or in
part, of the telecommunication systems of the
respective companies or Her Majesty. 1955, c.
29, s. 26.

**27.** The National Company and every
other railway company comprised in National
Railways, may, in conjunction with or
substitution for the rail services under their
management or control, buy, sell, lease or
operate motor vehicles of all kinds for the
carriage of traffic. 1955, c. 29, s. 27.

**28.** The National Company may construct,
purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, charter,
own, maintain, operate and manage vessels,
motorships, steamships, tugs, car ferries,
dredges, lighters, barges, boats and water craft
of every description, herein called vessels, and
sell or otherwise dispose thereof and it shall
be entitled to charge fares and freight for
traffic carried on board such vessels. 1955, c.
29, s. 28.

**29.** The National Company may purchase,
lease or otherwise acquire or provide, hold,
use, enjoy and operate, as well in Canada as
in such other places as are deemed expedient,
and either in the name of the National
Company or in the name of any other
company comprised in National Railways,
such lands, water lots, wharfs, docks, dock
yards, slips, warehouses, elevators, hotels,
offices and other buildings as it may find
respecting the use thereof, and sell or otherwise
dispose thereof ; and may carry on the business
of warehousemen and wharfingers, and charge
wharfage and other dues for the use of any
such property. 1955, c. 29, s. 29.

## FINANCE

**30.** The National Company may acquire
anv securities issued by, or make advances to,
or receive advances from any other company
comprised in National Railways, and may
take or give security for such advances; the
National Company may also borrow upon its
notes or securities or the notes or securities of
any such other company, whether for its own
benefit or for the benefit of such other
company or otherwise. 1955, c. 29, s. 30.
3 1. The National Company may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, acquire,
hold, guarantee, pledge and dispose of shares
in the capital stocks, bonds, notes, securities
or other contractual obligations whatever of
any railway company, or of any transporta
tion, navigation, terminal, telecommunica
tion, express, hotel, electric or power company
or of any other company authorized to carry
on any business incidental to the working of
a railway, or any business that in the opinion
of the Board of Directors may be carried on
in the interests of the National Company.
1955, c. 29, s. 31.

**32.** Where Parliament has provided for
expenditures on equipment to the extent of
twenty-five per cent of the cost of such
equipment, the National Company may make
or arrange for one or more equipment issues
for the remaining seventy-five per cent of
such cost, and whenever any such issue is
arranged with and made by a trustee the
National Company may guarantee payment
of the principal and interest thereof and
thereon. 1955, c. 29, s. 32.

**33.** Sections 77 and 78 of the Railway Act
deposit and registration of mort-
gages and instruments in any way affecting
apply to any mortgages or instru
ments affecting mortgages heretofore or
hereafter executed by any company comprised
in Canadian National Railways securing any
issue of bonds, debentures, or other securities ;
notarially certified copies of such mortgages
or instruments may be deposited or registered
hereunder in lieu of the original documents.
1955, c. 29, s. 33.

**34.** (1) The Governor in Council may cause
agreements to be executed by or on behalf of
Her Majesty undertaking or guaranteeing
that any company comprised in National
Railways will restore or make good all loss or
damage to the mortgaged premises comprised
in any mortgage or deed of trust, (hereinafter
called "such mortgage"), at any time executed
by any such company, occasioned by fire or
other casualty against which the company
covenanted in such mortgage to insure, and
indemnifying the trustee or trustees of any
such mortgage against any consequences
arising from any failure
  * (_a_) on the part of the company to comply
with such covenants to insure, and
(6) on the part of such trustee or trustees to
take any action in respect thereof.
(2) The times and manner of the giving of
any agreement under subsection (1) and the
form and terms thereof, and the person who
may sign the agreement on behalf of Her
Majesty, shall be such as the Governor in
Council approves or directs. 1955, c. 29, s. 34.

**35.** Notwithstanding anything in the Inter
pretation Act or any other Act, the financial
year in respect of National Railways is the
calendar year, unless the Governor in Council
otherwise directs. 1955, c. 29, s. 35.

**36.** (1) The surplus or deficit of Canadian
Government Railways shall be included in,
and deemed to be part of, the surplus or
deficit, as the case may be, of National
Railways.
(2) This section does not apply to such
Canadian Government Railways as are desig-
nated by the Governor in Council. 1955, c. 29,
s. 36.

**37.** (1) The annual budget of National
Railways shall be under the control of the
Board of Directors and shall be submitted by
the Board of Directors to the Minister of
Transport.
(2) The Minister of Transport shall annu
ally lay before Parliament the budget of
National Railways approved by the Governor
in Council on the recommendation of the
Minister of Transport and the Minister of
Finance.
(3) The annual budget of National Rail
ways shall include estimates of the amounts
required
  * (_a_) for income deficits,
  * (_b_) for capital expenditures,
  * (_c_) for refunding or retirement of maturing
securities, and
  * (_d_) for additional working capital.
(4) Income deficits of National Railways
shall not be funded.
(5) Amounts provided by Parliament to
meet capital expenditures shall not be diverted
to cover deficits in operation unless with the
express authority of Parliament. 1955, c. 29,
s. 37.

**38.** (1) A continuous audit of the accounts
of National Railways shall be made by
independent auditors appointed annually by
Parliament who shall annually report to
Parliament in respect of their audit.
(2) The report of the auditors shall call
attention to any matters that in their opinion
require consideration or remedial action.
(3) The auditors shall be paid by the
National Company such amounts as the
Governor in Council approves. 1955, c. 29,
s. 38.

**39.** (1) The Board of Directors shall make
a report annually to Parliament setting forth
the results of their operations, the amounts
expended on capital account in respect of
National Railways and such other information
necessary for the information of Parliament
relation to any situation existing at the
time of such report, or as may be required
from time to time by the Governor in Council.
(2) The report shall contain a separate
section giving in a summary manner informa
tion concerning :
  * (_a_) cooperative projects approved during
the preceding year by the National Com
pany and the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company but not yet completed ;
(6) cooperative projects approved during
the preceding year by the National Com
pany and the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company but not proceeded with and the
reasons therefor;
  * (_c_) cooperative projects studied during the
preceding year by the National Company
and the Canadian Pacific Railway Compa
ny but not approved and the reasons
therefor ;
  * (_d_) cooperative projects currently being
studied by the National Company and the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, and
such other information as appears to the
Directors to be of public interest or necessary
for the information of Parliament with
relation to any situation existing at the
time of such report or as may be required
from time to time by the Governor in
Council; and
  * (_e_) an estimate of the annual value, having
regard to the traffic conditions and cost of
railway operations obtaining at the time of
the report, of continuing cooperative meas
ures, such as the pooling of trains. 1955, c.
29,s.39; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 77.

**40.** The annual reports of the Board of
Directors and auditors, respectively, shall be
submitted to Parliament through the Minister
of Transport. 1955, c. 29, s. 40.

**41.** (1) Any equipment trust certificates,
bonds or debentures in interim or definitive
forms heretofore or hereafter issued by the
National Company pursuant to any Act
relating to the National Company, may be
executed on behalf of the National Company
by being signed by the President or a Vice-
President and countersigned by the Secretary
an Assistant Secretary, and any coupons
attached to such equipment trust certificates,
or debentures shall bear the signature
of the President, a Vice-President, the
Secretary, an Assistant Secretary or the
Treasurer.
(2) The signatures of the officers referred
to in subsection (1) may be engraved,
lithographed, or otherwise mechanically
reproduced facsimiles of such signatures, and
such reproduced and other signatures of such
officers, made before, on or after the 28th day
of June 1955, are for all purposes valid and
binding upon the National Company, whether
at the date of the issue of the equipment trust
certificates, bonds, debentures or coupons the
persons whose signatures so appear were or
were not the President, a Vice-President,
Secretary, an Assistant Secretary or Treasurer
of the National Company, as the case may
be. 1955, c. 29, s. 41.

**42.** Where the principal and interest of
securities are guaranteed by Her Majesty
pursuant to any Act relating to the National
Company, an endorsement on the face of
such securities certifying to such guarantee
and bearing the engraved, lithographed or
otherwise mechanically reproduced facsimile
of the signature of a person designated by the
Governor in Council is for all purposes valid
and binding upon Her Majesty as to the
existence and validity of such guarantee.
1955, c. 29, s. 42.

**43.** (1) The National Company may, for
the benefit of its officers and employees and
their dependants or other representatives,
make provision for, establish and support one
or more funds or plans for pensions, insurance
against accident, sickness or death or other
purposes.
(2) Any benefit under a fund or plan
established under subsection (1) may be made
available to the officers and employees of
any railway or company comprised in the
National Railways or controlled by the
National Company, upon such terms and
conditions as are determined by the directors.
(3) The directors may make rules and
regulations for the due and efficient manage-
ment, administration and disposition of any
fund or plan established under this section.
(4) The pension plan established pursuant
to the Canadian National Railways Pension
Act, chapter 89 of the Statutes of Canada,
1907, as amended by chapter 4 of the Statutes
of Canada, 1929, and existing on the 28th day
of June 1955, is hereby continued and shall
be deemed to have been established under
this section. 1955, c. 29, s. 43.

## PROCEDURE

**44.** (1) Actions, suits or other proceedings
by or against the National Company in
respect of its undertaking or in respect of the
operation or management of Canadian Gov
ernment Railways, may, in the name of the
National Company, be brought in and may
be heard by any judge or judges of any court
of competent jurisdiction in Canada, with the
same right of appeal as may be had from a
judge sitting in court under the rules of court
applicable thereto.
(2) Any defence available to the respective
corporations, including Her Majesty, in
respect of whose undertaking the cause of
action arose shall be available to the National
Company, and any expense incurred in
connection with any action taken or judgment
rendered against the National Company in
respect of its operation or management of
any lines of railway or properties, other than
its own lines of railway or properties, may be
charged to and collected from the corporation
in respect of whose undertaking such action
arose.
(3) Any court having under the statutes or
laws relating thereto jurisdiction to deal with
any cause of action, suit or other proceeding,
when arising between private parties shall,
with respect to any similar cause of action,
suit or other proceeding by or against the
National Company, be a court of competent
jurisdiction under this section. 1955, c. 29,
s. 44.

## REPORT

**45.** The Minister of Transport may appoint
or direct any person to inquire into and report
upon any matters or things relating to or
affecting National Railways or their works
and undertakings, and any person so appoint-
ed or directed may, for the purposes of and
in connection with any such inquiry or report,
do all such things and exercise all such powers
as are referred to or mentioned in section 82
of the National Transportation Act. 1955, c. 29,
s. 45.

## SCHEDULE

## PART I

## COMPANIES COMPRISED

## IN CANADIAN NORTHERN SYSTEM
Canadian Northern Railway Company
and
Canadian National Express Company
Canadian National Realties, Limited
Canadian National Telegraph Company
Canadian National Transfer Company
The Canadian Northern Alberta Railway Company
Canadian Northern Consolidated Railways
The Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company
The Canadian Northern Quebec Railway Company
The Canadian Northern Railway Express Company, Limited
Canadian Northern Steamships, Limited
Canadian Northern System Terminals (Limited)
The Dalhousie Navigation Company, Limited
Duluth, Rainy Lake & Winnipeg Railway Company
Duluth, Winnipeg and Pacific Railroad Company
Duluth, Winnipeg and Pacific Railway Company
The Great North Western Telegraph Company of Canada
The Lake Superior Terminals Company Limited
The Minnesota and Manitoba Railroad Company
The Minnesota and Ontario Bridge Company
Mount Royal Tunnel and Terminal Company, Limited
The Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Navigation Company
(Limited)
The Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Railway Company
The Northern Consolidated Holding Company Limited
The Quebec and Lake St. John Railway Company
St. Boniface Western Land Company
The Winnipeg Land Company Limited

## PART II

## COMPANIES FORMERLY COMPRISED

## IN GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY SYSTEM
Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railroad Company
Canadian National Steamship Company Limited
The Central Counties Railway Company
Central Vermont Railway, Inc.
Central Vermont Transportation Company
The Champlain and St. Lawrence Railroad Company
Grand Trunk-Milwaukee Car Ferry Company
The Grand Trunk Pacific Branch Lines Company
The Grand Trunk Pacific Development Company, Limited
The Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company
The Grand Trunk Pacific Saskatchewan Railway Company
Grand Trunk Pacific Terminal Elevator Company, (Limited)
Grand Trunk Western Railroad Company
International Bridge Company
Montreal and Southern Counties Railway Company
The Montreal and Vermont Junction Railway Company
The Montreal Warehousing Company
The Oshawa Railway Company
The Pembroke Southern Railway Company
St. Clair Tunnel Company
The Stanstead, Shefford and Chambly Railroad Company
The Thousand Islands Railway Company
The United States and Canada Rail Road Company
Vermont and Province Line Railroad Company

## PART III

## OTHER COMPANIES
Canadian National Railways (France)
The Canadian National Railways Securities Trust
Canadian National Rolling Stock Limited
Canadian National Transportation, Limited
The Centmont Corporation
Central Vermont Transit Corporation
Consolidated Land Corporation
Industrial Land Company
Manitoba Northern Railway Company
Montreal Fruit & Produce Terminal Company, Limited
The Montreal Stock Yards Company
Muskegon Railway and Navigation Company
National Terminals of Canada, Limited
Prince George, Limited
Prince Rupert, Limited
1955, c. 29, First Sch.
