
# CHAPTER C- 11
Act to establish the Canadian Overseas
Telecommunication Corporation

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Canadian
Overseas Telecommunication Corporation Act.
R.S., c. 42, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the directors of the Corpora
tion;
"cablehead" means the shore end of a
submarine cable ;
"Corporation" means the Canadian Overseas
Telecommunication Corporation estab
lished by this Act ;
"Court" means the Exchequer Court of
Canada ;
"director" means a director of the Corpora
tion;
"external telecommunication services" means
the telecommunication services between
Canada and any place outside Canada ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Communi
cations or such other Minister as the
Governor in Council may from time to time
designate ;
"public communications" means any telecom
munication that is available to the public ;
"registrar of deeds" includes a registrar of
land titles or other officer with whom the
title to land is registered ;
"telecommunication" means any transmis
sion, emission or reception of signs, signals,
writing, images or sounds or intelligence of
any nature by wire, radio, visual or other
electromagnetic system. R.S., c. 42, s. 2;
1952-53, c. 13, s. 6; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 100;
1968-69, c. 30, s. 1.

## CORPORATION ESTABLISHED

**3.** (1) There is hereby established a body
corporate for the purposes set forth in this
Act to be called the Canadian Overseas
Telecommunication Corporation.
(2) The Corporation shall consist of those
persons who from time to time comprise the
Board.
(3) The Board shall consist of a director
who shall be the President and General
Manager and six other directors.
(4) The Board may delegate to the Presi
dent and General Manager or to any director,
officer, agent or employee of the Corporation
authority to act in the conduct of the business
of the Corporation in all matters that are not
by this Act or by the by-laws of the
Corporation specifically reserved to be done
by the Board.
(5) When a director by reason of any
temporary incapacity is unable at any time
to perform the duties of his office, the
Governor in Council may appoint a temporary
substitute director upon such terms and
conditions as the Governor in Council may
prescribe.
(6) A vacancy in the Board of Directors
does not impair the right of the remaining
directors to act.
(7) Before any director enters upon the
execution of his duties, he shall take and
subscribe before the Clerk of the Privy Council
an oath, that shall be filed in the office of
the said Clerk, in the following form :
] , swear that I will faithfully
and honestly fulfil the duties that devolve upon me as a
director of the Canadian Overseas Telecommunication
Corporation. So help me God.
officers, employees and agents of
the Corporation and generally as to the
of the affairs of the Corporation.
(9) The Corporation shall comply with any
directions from time to time given to it by
the Governor in Council or the Minister with
respect to the exercise of its powers.
(10) The head office of the Corporation
shall be in the city of Ottawa in the Province
of Ontario or in such other place as the
directors may select, but meetings of the
directors may be held at such other places as
the directors may decide. R.S., c. 42, s. 3;
1963, c. 24, s. 1.

**4.** (\~) The President and General Manager
shall be appointed by the Governor in Council
to hold office during good behaviour for a
term O f seven years, but may be removed by
the Governor in Council for permanent
incapacity or for other cause.
(2) The President and General Manager
shall be paid such salary by the Corporation
as is fixed by the Board with the approval of
the Governor in Council.
(3) The President and General Manager
may be re-appointed on the expiration of his
term of office. 1963, c. 24, s. 2.

**5.** The Board shall appoint such Vice-
Presidents who shall be paid such salaries by
the Corporation as the Board may determine,
and shall designate one Vice-President to be
the Vice-President for the purposes of subsec
tion 11(2). 1963, c. 24, s. 3.

**6.** (1) Each of the directors other than the
President and General Manager shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council to hold
office for a term not exceeding three years.
(2) A director appointed under this section
is removable from office by the Governor in
Council for permanent incapacity or for other
cause.
(3) Where the office of a director becomes
vacant during the term of the director
appointed thereto, the Governor in Council
may appoint a director for the remainder of
the term.
(4) A director appointed under this section
may, on the expiration of his term of office,
be re-appointed.
(5) The directors appointed under this
section are entitled to receive for attendance
at directors meetings and executive committee
meetings such fees as may be fixed by the by
laws of the Corporation. R.S., c. 42, s. 5; 1963,
c. 24, s. 4.

## POWERS AND PURPOSES

**7.** The Corporation is established for the
following purposes :
  * (_a_) to establish, maintain and operate in
Canada and elsewhere external telecom
munication services for the conduct of
public communications ;
(6) to carry on the business of public
communications by cable, radiotelegraph,
radiotelephone or any other means of
telecommunication between Canada and
any other place ;
  * (_c_) to make use of all developments in cable
and radio transmission or reception for
external telecommunication purposes as
related to public communication services ;
  * (_d_) to conduct investigations and researches
with the object of improving the efficiency
of telecommunication services generally;
and
  * (_e_) to coordinate Canada s external tele
communication services with the telecom
munication services of other nations. R.S.,
c. 42, s. 6 ; 1963, c. 24, s. 5 ; 1968-69, c. 30,
s. 2.

**8.** (1) The Corporation is for all purposes
of this Act an agent of Her Majesty and its
powers under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, subject to
section 9, the Corporation may in its own
name enter into contracts and acquire or hold
real and personal property or any interest
therein.
(3) All property acquired or held by the
Corporation is the property of Her Majesty
and title thereto may be vested in the name
of Her Majesty or in the name of the
Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
respect of any right or obligation acquired
incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Majesty, whether in its name or in the
of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation, in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Corporation
were not an agent of Her Majesty. R.S., c. 42,
s. 7.

**9.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Corpo
ration may do such things as it deems
expedient for or conducive to the attainment
of the purposes set forth in section 7, and
may carry on its business in Canada and
outside of Canada and, without restricting
the generality of the foregoing, the Corpora
tion may
  * (_a_) buy, sell, lease, contract, acquire, hold
and dispose of real and personal property
of every description ; and
(6) enter into agreements and arrangements
with any government, corporation, board,
person or other body operating communi
cation services for the interchange of
messages, pooling of interests, division of
tolls and revenues, sharing of expenses and
generally in furtherance of the business of
the Corporation.
(2) On the recommendation of the Treasury
Board, the Governor in Council may by
regulation prescribe limits to
  * (_a_) the amount that may be expended by
the Corporation under any agreement or
lease, or
  * (_b_) the value of any real or personal
property that may be acquired or disposed
of by the Corporation in any transaction,
and unless the approval of the Governor in
Council is first obtained, the Corporation
shall not exceed, with respect to the transac
tions referred to in paragraphs (a) and (6), the
limits prescribed pursuant to this subsection.
R.S., c. 42, s. 8; 1968-69, c. 30, s. 3.

## STAFF

**10.** (1) The Corporation may, notwith
standing any statute or law, employ such
officers or employees as it deems necessary to
carry out this Act and may determine their
conditions of employment and their remuner
ation, which shall be paid by the Corporation.
(2) The Canadian Overseas Telecommuni-
cation Corporation may continue the pension
and superannuation arrangements made by
by-law and approved by the Governor in
before the 12th day of December 1963
respect of those persons who are or may be
for benefits thereunder, and may by
with the approval of the Governor in
Council make other pension or superannua
tion arrangements for the benefit of those
persons. R.S., c. 42, s. 9; 1953-54, c. 44, s. 2;
1963, c. 24, s. 6.

## ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY

**11.** (i) with the prior approval of the
Governor in Council, the Corporation may,
without the consent of the owner, take or
acquire lands for the purposes of this Act and,
except as otherwise provided in this section,
all the provisions of the Expropriation Act are,
mutatis mutandis, applicable to the taking,
acquisition or abandonment of lands by the
Corporation under this section.
(2) For the purposes of section 9 of the
Expropriation Act the plan and description
may be signed by the President and General
Manager of the Corporation or by the Vice-
President of the Corporation or by a Dominion
land surveyor.
(3) The Corporation shall pay compensa
tion for lands taken or acquired under this
section or for damage to lands injuriously
affected by the construction of works erected
by it and all claims against the Corporation
for such compensation may be heard and
determined in the Exchequer Court of Canada
in accordance with sections 46 to 49 of the
Exchequer Court Act.
(4) The Corporation shall pay out of the
funds administered by it the compensation
agreed upon or adjudged by the Court to be
payable.
(5) In this section the expression "take or
acquire lands" includes enter upon, take
possession of, use and take or acquire lands
for a limited time or otherwise or for a limited
estate or interest. R.S., c. 42, s. 13.

## FINANCING

**12.** (l) At the request of the Corporation
and with the approval of the Governor in
  * (_a_) to the Corporation out of the unappro
priated moneys in the Consolidated Reve
nue Fund of amounts not exceeding in the
aggregate four and one-half million dollars,
and
(6) in addition to the payments referred to
in paragraph (a), of moneys appropriated
by Parliament for the capital purposes of
the Corporation.
(2) Interest on the moneys paid to the
Corporation under this section shall be paid
by the Corporation to the Receiver General
at such times and at such rates as may, from
time to time, be fixed by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 42, s. 14; 1952-53, c. 13, s. 7.

**13.** The Corporation shall execute and
deliver to the Minister of Finance, in such
form as he may approve, certificates evidenc
ing payments made to it under this Act and
the terms and conditions under which such
payments were made. 1952-53, c. 13, s. 8.

**14.** The Corporation may invest any
moneys held by it that are temporarily in
excess of current requirements in bonds of, or
guaranteed by, the Government of Canada.
R.S., c. 42, s. 17.

## GENERAL
is. Where, pursuant to this Act, title to
rea l or immovable property becomes vested
in the name of the Corporation or Her
Majesty, the Corporation may pay to a
municipal or other taxing authority an
amount equivalent to the taxes that might be
levied with respect to such property of the
Corporation or Her Majesty by the taxing
authority if the property were not so vested,
and the Corporation may enter into such
agreements as may be necessary to give effect
to this section. R.S., c. 42, s. 20.

**16.** The accounts of the Corporation shall
be audited by the Auditor General of Canada
and his report shall be included in the annual
report of the Corporation. R.S., c. 42, s. 22.

**17.** The Corporation shall submit annually
to the Minister for his consideration and
approval an operating budget for the next
following financial year of the Corporation,
1952-53, c. 13, s. 10.
ig. T ne Corporation is subject to the Radio
Act, and is deemed to be a company within
the meaning of Part III of the Telegraphs Act.
R.S., c. 42, s. 24.
