
## CHAPTER C- 12
Act to provide for the constitution and
powers of The Canadian Wheat Board

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Canadian
Wheat Board Act. R.S., c. 44, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"actual producer" means a producer actually
engaged in the production of grain;
"Board" means The Canadian Wheat Board
established under this Act ;
"designated area" means that area comprised
by the Provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Alberta, and those parts of the Province
of British Columbia known as the Peace
River District and the Creston-Wynndel
Areas, and such other parts of the Province
of British Columbia and such parts of the
Province of Ontario lying in the Western
Division as the Board may from time to
time designate;
"elevator" means a grain elevator, warehouse
or mill that has been declared by the
Parliament of Canada to be a work for the
general advantage of Canada ;
"grain" includes wheat, oats, barley, rye,
flaxseed and rapeseed ;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"order" means any order of the Board made
under this Act and includes "instructions to
the trade" issued by the Board ;
book" means a Canadian Wheat
Board delivery permit issued pursuant to
this Act by the Board for a crop year ;
"producer" includes, as well as an actual
producer, any person entitled, as landlord,
vendor or mortgagee, to the grain grown by
an actual producer or to any share therein;
"quota" means the quantity of grain author
ized to be delivered from grain produced
on land described in a permit book as fixed
from time to time by the Board, whether
expressed as a quantity that may be
delivered from a specified number of acres
or otherwise ;
"wheat product" means any substance pro
duced by processing or manufacturing
wheat, alone or together with any other
material or substance, designated by the
Governor in Council as a wheat product for
the purposes of this Act.
(2) Unless it is otherwise provided in this
Act, words and expressions used in this Act
have the same meaning as in the Canada
Grain Act, except that where in any definition
of any such word or expression contained in
the said Act the word "elevator" is used, it
has the meaning given to it under subsection
(1).
(3) The Board may, by order, designate
parts of the Province of British Columbia,
other than the Peace River District and the
Creston-Wynndel Areas and parts of the
Province of Ontario lying in the Western
Division that are included in the designated
area for the purposes of this Act.
(4) The Governor in Council may, by
regulation, designate substances produced by
processing or manufacturing wheat, either
alone or together with any other material or
substance, as wheat products for the purposes
of this Act. R.S., c. 44, s. 2; 1962, c. 21, s. 1;
1967-68, c. 5, s. 1.

## PARTI

## THE CANADIAN WHEAT BOARD

**3.** (1) There shall be a board to be known
The Canadian Wheat Board which shall
consist of not less than three nor more than
five commissioners appointed by the Governor
in Council.
(2) One of the commissioners shall be
appointed Chief Commissioner and another
Assistant Chief Commissioner, and at sessions
of the Board the Chief Commissioner, and in
his absence the Assistant Chief Commissioner,
shall preside.
(3) Each commissioner holds office during
good behaviour but may be removed for cause
at any time by the Governor in Council, but
no commissioner shall hold office beyond the
age of seventy years.
(4) The salaries of the commissioners shall
be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(5) Two commissioners constitute a quorum.
(6) The headquarters of the Board shall be
at the city of Winnipeg in the Province of
Manitoba. R.S., c. 44, s. 3; 1952-53, c. 26, s. 7.

**4.** (1) The Board is a body corporate
having capacity to contract and to sue and be
sued in the name of the Board.
(2) The Board is, for all purposes, an agent
of Her Majesty in right of Canada, and its
powers under this Act may be exercised by it
only as an agent of Her Majesty in the said
right.
(3) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Board on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Board, in the name of the
Board in any court that would have jurisdic
tion if the Board were not an agent of Her
Majesty.
(4) The Board is incorporated with the
object of marketing in an orderly manner, in
:
  * (_a_) to buy, take delivery of, store, transfer,
sell, ship or otherwise dispose of grain;
(6) to enter into contracts or agreements for
the purchase, sale, handling, storage, trans
portation, disposition or insurance of grain ;
  * (_c_) to enter into ordinary commercial bank
ing arrangements on its own credit and to
borrow money on the security of grain held
by it;
  * (_d_) to acquire, hold and dispose of real and
personal property, but the Board shall not
acquire or dispose of any real property
without the approval of the Governor in
Council ;
  * (_e_) to employ such technical, professional
or other officers, clerks or employees as may
be necessary for the conduct of its business ;
(/) to establish branches or employ agents
in Canada or elsewhere ;
  * (_g_) to establish, utilize and employ such
marketing agencies or facilities as it deems
necessary for the purpose of its operations
under this Act ;
  * (_h_) to operate elevators, either directly or
by means of agents, and subject to the
Canada Grain Act, to pay such agents,
commissions, storage and other charges,
remuneration or compensation as may be
agreed upon with the approval of the Board
of Grain Commissioners ;
  * (_i_) to authorize any officer or employee of
the Board or any other person to act on
behalf of the Board in the conduct of its
operations under this Act;
  * (_j_) to act as agent for or on behalf of any
Minister or agent of Her Majesty in right
of Canada in respect of any operations that
it may be directed to carry out by the
Governor in Council ; and
  * (_k_) generally to do all such acts and things
as may be necessary or incidental to carrying
on its operations under this Act. R.S., c. 44,
s. 4.

**5.** (j) Subject to regulations, the Board
pursuant to its operations under this Act for
prices as it considers reasonable with the
object of promoting the sale of grain produced
in Canada in world markets.
(2) Profits, if any, realized by the Board
from its operations in wheat under this Act
during any crop year, other than from its
operations under Part III, with respect to the
disposition of which no provision is made
elsewhere in this Act, shall be paid to the
Receiver General for the Consolidated Rev
enue Fund.
(3) Losses, if any, sustained by the Board
  * (_a_) from its operations under Part III in
relation to any pool period fixed thereunder,
during such pool period, or
(6) from its other operations under this Act
during any crop year,
for which no provision is made in any other
Part, shall be paid out of moneys provided
by Parliament. R.S., c. 44, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Subject to this section, the Board
may, if it deems it advisable for the purpose
of its operations, invest any moneys in its
possession or control, whether arising from
the sale of grain or otherwise, in securities of
the Government of Canada maturing at
appropriate times and may sell any securities
so acquired by it and reinvest the proceeds
thereof or any part thereof in a like manner
from time to time.
(2) Investment transactions under this sec
tion shall be made only on the authorization
of an Investment Committee of three members
consisting of
  * (_a_) one member nominated by the Minister
of Finance,
(6) the Governor of the Bank of Canada,
or, in the event of his absence or incapacity,
the Deputy Governor or the Acting Gover
nor for the time being, and
  * (_c_) one member nominated by the Board.
(3) The Board shall at the time of realiza
tion use every profit realized by it on the sale
a security acquired by it under this section
in payment of expenses incurred by the Board
in its operations.
(4) Every loss sustained by the Board on
the sale of a security acquired under this
section shall for all purposes be deemed to be
an expense incurred by the Board in the
course of its operations at the time of the sale
of the security.
(5) T ne Board shall make all purchases and
sales of securities authorized by this section
through the agency of the Bank of Canada.
R.S.,c. 44, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Board shall
  * (_a_) keep proper books and accounts of its
operations under this Act, showing such
particulars therein as may be requisite for
proper accounting in accordance with estab
lished accounting practice ;
(6) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, appoint a responsible firm of
chartered accountants for the purpose of
auditing accounts and records and certifying
reports of the Board ;
  * (_c_) report in writing to the Minister as soon
as possible after the end of each month, as
at the close of business on the last day of
that month, its purchases and sales of all
grain during the month and the quantities
of grain then held by it, the contracts to
take delivery of grain to which it is then a
party, all securities then held by it and the
financial result of the Board s operations as
at the end of that month, which report shall
be certified by the auditors of the Board ;
  * (_d_) make such reports and furnish such
information as the Minister may from time
to time require ; and
  * (_e_) in each year, on or before the 31st day
of March or such other date as the Governor
in Council may fix, report to the Minister
in writing, as at the close of business on the
last day of the preceding crop year, its
purchases and sales of all grain during that
crop year, the quantities of grain then
owned by it, the contracts to take delivery
of grain to which it is then a party, all
securities then held by it and the financial
result of the Board s operations as at the
end of that crop year and such further
information as the Minister may require,
and the report shall be certified by the
auditors of the Board.
(2) The Minister shall lay a copy of each
report of the Board made under paragraph
(l)(e) before Parliament within fifteen days
after the receipt thereof, or if Parliament is
not then sitting, within fifteen days after the
commencement of the next ensuing session.
R.S.,c. 44, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Board may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, establish a
pension fund for the members of the Board
and the officers, clerks and employees
employed by the Board under this Act and
their dependants, and may contribute to it
out of funds of the Board.
(2) Contributions to the pension fund made
by the Board, pursuant to subsection (1), shall
be deemed to be expenses incurred in
connection with the operations of the Board.
R.S., c. 44, s. 8.

**9.** (j) with the approval of the Governor
in Council, the Board may enter into a
contract with any person
  * (_a_) for the provision of a group life
insurance plan, and
  * (_b_) for the provision of a group medical-
surgical insurance plan
for the members of the Board and the officers,
clerks and employees employed by the Board
under this Act and their dependants, and
may contribute a share of the premiums
payable under such plans out of the funds of
the Board.
(2) Contributions made by the Board pur
suant to subsection (1) shall be deemed to be
expenses incurred in connection with the
operations of the Board. 1962, c. 21, s. 2.

**10.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint during pleasure an Advisor} Com-
to assist the Board, which Committee
consist of not more than eleven members
whom six shall represent wheat producers.
(2) The members of the Advisory Commit
tee shall not receive any salary but shall be
paid their necessary travelling and living
expenses and an honorarium of ten dollars
per day for each day of absence from their
homes while travelling to, attending and
returning from the meetings of such Commit
tee.
(3) The Board may call meetings of the
Advisory Committee to be held at such time
and place as the Board may decide.
(4) The Minister may call meetings of the
Advisory Committee to be held at such time
and place as he may determine.
(5) The Advisory Committee, as soon as
convenient after every meeting, shall report
the proceedings thereof to the Minister and
to the Board. R.S., c. 44, s. 9.

**11.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
order not inconsistent with this Act, direct the
Board as to the manner in which any of its
operations, powers and duties under this Act
shall be conducted, exercised or performed.
(2) Except as directed by the Governor in
Council, the Board shall not buy grain, other
than wheat. R.S., c. 44, s. 10.

**12.** The Governor in Council may author
ize the Minister of Finance, on behalf of Her
Majesty, to guarantee, on such terms and
conditions as the Governor in Council may
approve, repayment of advances made to the
Board, and interest thereon, on the security
of grain held by the Board or otherwise, by
any bank for the purpose of carrying on its
operations under this Act, or to make loans
or advances to the Board on such terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon. R.S., c. 44,
s. 11.

**13.** (1) Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, every elevator shall be operated for
and on behalf of the Board and no person
other than an agent of the Board shall operate
any elevator, unless such elevator has been
excepted by order of the Board from the
operation of this Act, and any elevator not
operated otherwise than for the Board or by
an agent of the Board, shall be deemed to be
operated in contravention of this Act.
(2) The Board may from time to time
rescind or vary any order made under this
section.
(3) In any civil or criminal proceedings
undertaken to enforce the provisions of this
Act, a certificate given by the duly authorized
officer of the Board that an elevator is being
operated otherwise than by the Board or an
agent of the Board is evidence that the
elevator is being operated otherwise than by
the Board or an agent of the Board, R.S., c.
44, s, 12.

**14.** No railway company or other person
engaged in transportation shall receive or
deliver any wheat from or to any elevator
after notice has been given to it by the Board
that such elevator is being operated in
contravention of this Act. R.S., c. 44, s. 13.

**15.** No certificate as to grade or weight
shall be given by any inspecting officer under
the Canada Grain Act in respect of wheat
stored in any elevator, after notice has been
given by the Board that such elevator is being
operated in contravention of this Act. R.S., c.
44, s. 14.

## PART II

## CONTROL OF ELEVATORS AND

## RAILWAYS
Application

**16.** Subject to section 23, in this Part
"grain" means grain produced in the desig-
nated i area and in "producer" j     means a producer I...
in respect of such grain. R.S., c. 44, s. 15.
Delivery of Grain

**17.** (\) Notwithstanding anything in the
Canada Grain Act, except with the permission
of the Board, no person shall deliver grain to
an elevator, and no manager or operator
thereof shall receive delivery of grain unless
  * (_a_) the person delivering the grain is the
actual producer of, or is entitled as a
producer to the grain ;
(6) at the time of delivery the person
delivering the grain produces to the manager
or operator a permit book under which he
is entitled to deliver the grain in the crop
year in which delivery is made ;
  * (_c_) the grain was produced in the crop year
in which delivery is made on the lands
described in the permit book or in any other
crop year on any lands whatsoever ;
  * (_d_) the grain is delivered at the delivery
point named in the permit book ; and
  * (_e_) the quantity of grain delivered, whether
sold, or delivered for storage, together with
all grain of the same kind previously
delivered under the permit book during the
crop year in which delivery is made, does
not exceed the quota established by the
Board for such delivery point for grain of
the kind delivered at the time it is delivered.
(2) Where grain is delivered by a producer
to an elevator, i the , , manager or operator
thereof shall, immediately upon completion
of the delivery of the grain, truly and correctly
record and enter the net weight in bushels
after dockage, of the grain so delivered in the
permit book under which delivery is made
and shall initial the entry in the permit book.
R.S., c. 44, s. 16.
jg. Except with the permission of the
Board, no person shall load into a railway car
grain that has not previously been delivered
under a permit book, and where, with such
permission, grain that has not been so
delivered is loaded by a producer into a
railway car, unless it is specifically otherwise
provided in such permission,
  * (_a_) no agent or employee of the railway
company shall issue a bill of lading in
respect of the grain so delivered unless the
delivery is made in accordance with subsec
tion 17(1), which applies in respect of such
delivery, and for such purpose an agent or
employee of the railway company shall be
deemed to be the operator of an elevator;
and
(6) the producer shall send the permit book
under which the grain is delivered, together
with the bill of lading under which the
grain is shipped, to the person with whom
he has arranged or is arranging for deliver}
and sale of the grain and for payment in
respect thereof, and the net weight in
bushels, after dockage, of the grain so
delivered, shall forthwith be recorded and
entered and such entry shall be initialled
in the said permit book, by or on behalf of
such person. R.S., c. 44, s. 17.
Permit Books

**19.** (1) Subject to this Act, a producer may
require the Board to issue a permit book
authorizing delivery of grain produced on the
land comprising the farm of the producer.
(2) The actual producer of grain on any
land has the prior right to possession of the
permit book in which such land is described
but shall make the permit book available to
any other producer entitled to deliver grain
thereunder on the request of such producer.
(3) Not more than one permit book shall be
issued in respect of land comprising any farm
or group of farms operated as a unit.
(4) No permit book shall be issued to any
person other than a producer. R.S., c. 44, s. 18.

**20.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), where two
i ^-^11
or more producers are entitled to gram
produced on any farm in any crop year, no
such producer may deliver in that crop year
under the permit book for the farm a
proportion of the quota of grain that may
from time to time be delivered thereunder
greater than the proportion that his share of
the grain is of the whole amount thereof.
(2) Where a producer is a mortgagor or a
under an agreement for sale of
comprising a farm and controls the
farming operations thereon, he is entitled to
deliver out of his share of the grain produced
thereon, in priority to any other producer in
respect of the farm, such amount of grain as
may be prescribed by order of the Board.
R.S.,c. 44, s. 19.
Administration
2 1. The Board may, notwithstanding any
thing in the Canada Grain Act, but subject to
directions, if any, contained in any order of
the Governor in Council, by order,
  * (_a_) prescribe the forms of and manner of
completing applications for permit books,
permit books and such other forms as may
be necessary for the administration of this
Act;
(6) prescribe the manner in which applica
tions for permit books shall be made and
permit books shall be issued ;
  * (_c_) prescribe the manner in which deliveries
of grain under a permit book shall be
recorded in the permit book or any other
entry may be made in such permit book ;
  * (_d_) prescribe a place on a railway as the
delivery point at which grain may be
delivered under a permit book ;
  * (_e_) determine whether, for the purposes of
this Act, two or more farms are operated as
a unit ;
(/) fix, from time to time, quotas of each
kind of grain that may be delivered by
producers to elevators or railway cars,
within any period or periods, either gener
ally or in specified areas or at specified
delivery points or otherwise ;
  * (_g_) notwithstanding anything in this Part,
prohibit the delivery into or receipt by an
elevator of any kind of grain, or any grade
or quality thereof, either generally or
otherwise ;
  * (_h_) exclude any kind of grain, or any grade
or quality thereof, from the provisions of
this Part, in whole or in part, either
generally or for any specified period or
otherwise ;
(0 require any kind of grain, or any grade
or quality thereof, in any elevator to be
delivered into railway cars or lake vessels ;
0) prohibit the delivery of any kind of
grain or of any grade or quality thereof out
of any elevator into railway cars or lake
vessels ;
(/c) provide for the allocation of railway
cars available for the shipment of grain at
any delivery point, other than cars placed
pursuant to a car order book, to any
elevator, loading platform or person at such
delivery point ; and
(/) require any person engaged in the
business of delivering, receiving, storing,
transporting or handling grain, to make
returns to the Board of information relating
thereto or of any facilities therefor, owned,
possessed or controlled by him. R.S., c. 44,
s. 20.

**22.** (1) The Governor in Council may
empower the Board to make inquiries and
investigations to ascertain the availability of
delivery and transportation facilities, supplies
of grain and all matters connected with the
interprovincial or export marketing of grain,
and for such purpose empower the Board and
the members thereof to exercise the powers of
Commissioners or a Commissioner, respective
ly, under Part I of the Inquiries Act.
(2) The Governor in Council may, by
regulation, provide that persons other than
producers who have become entitled to grain
may, notwithstanding anything contained in
this Part, deliver grain to an elevator or
railway car and the terms and conditions
upon which the said grain may be so delivered.
R.S., c. 44,8.21.

**23.** The Governor in Council may, by
regulation, apply this Part to grain produced
in any area in Canada outside the designated
area specified in the regulation and to
producers in respect of such grain, and
thereafter, until such regulation is revoked,
"grain" in this Part means grain produced in
the designated area and in the area so
and "producer" means a producer
respect of such grain. R.S., c. 44, s. 22.

## PART III

## INTERPROVINCIAL AND EXPORT

## MARKETING OF WHEAT BY

## BOARD

**24.** Subject to section 32, in this Part "pool
period" means a crop year. 1952-53, c. 26, s.
9; 1957, c. 6, s. 2; 1962," c. 21, s. 4; 1967-68, c.
5,s.3.

**25.** (1) The Board shall undertake the
marketing of wheat produced in the designat
ed area in interprovincial and export trade
and for such purpose shall
  * (_a_) buy all wheat produced in the designat
ed area and offered by a producer for sale
and delivery to the Board at an elevator or
in a railway car in accordance with this Act
and the regulations and the orders of the
Board ;
(6) pay to producers selling and delivering
wheat produced in the designated area to
the Board, at the time of delivery or at any
time thereafter as may be agreed upon, a
sum certain per bushel basis in store
Thunder Bay or Vancouver to be fixed
from time to time by regulation of the
Governor in Council in respect of wheat of
the grade No. 1 Manitoba Northern and by
the Board, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, in respect of each
other grade thereof; but such sum certain
shall, in the case of grades other than No.
1 Manitoba Northern be such sum certain
as in the opinion of the Board, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, from
time to time, brings the sum certain for
each such grade into proper price relation
ship with the said sum certain for the grade
No. 1 Manitoba Northern; and where,
pursuant to this paragraph, the sum certain
payable to producers in respect of wheat of
any grade is increased during a pool period,
the Board shall pay to any person the
amount of such increase in respect of each
bushel of wheat of that grade produced in
the designated area and sold and delivered
by him as a producer to the Board during
that pool period prior to the day on which
such increase becomes effective ; and
  * (_c_) issue to a producer, who sells and
delivers wheat produced in the designated
area to the Board, a certificate indicating
the number of bushels purchased and
delivered and the grade thereof, which
certificates entitle the producer named
therein to share in the equitable distribution
of the surplus, if any, arising from the
operations of the Board with regard to the
wheat produced in the designated area sold
and delivered to the Board during the same
pool period.
(2) The Board shall, if directed by regula
tion, pay to each producer at the time of
delivery of wheat to the Board, in addition
to any other payment authorized by this
section, a sum per bushel on account of
storage of the said wheat on the producer s
farm, for such period of storage as the Board
in its sole discretion shall fix for the purposes
of such storage payment, which sum, however,
shall equal the amount payable for storage in
a country elevator for the same period
according to the country elevator tariff rate
filed with the Board of Grain Commissioners.
R.S., c. 44, s. 25.

**26.** (1) As soon as the Board receives
payment in full for all wheat produced in the
designated area sold and delivered to it by
producers during any pool period, there shall
be deducted from the total amount received
therefor, all moneys disbursed by or on behalf
of the Board by way of payment in respect of
the said wheat and by way of expenses
incurred in connection with the operations of
the Board attributable to the said wheat,
including the remuneration, allowances, trav
elling and living expenses of the Commis
sioners, members of the Advisory Committee
and the officers, clerks and employees of the
Board, and the estimated expenses of distri
bution of the balance mentioned in subsection
(2), as estimated by the Board, and all moneys
disbursed by or on behalf of the Board by
way of expenses incurred in its operations
under Part II relating to pool periods
subsequent to the 31st day of July 1950.
(2) The Board shall distribute the balance
remaining in its account in respect of wheat
produced in the designated area purchased
by it from producers during any pool period,
after making the deductions therefrom pro
vided for in subsection (1), among holders of
certificates issued by the Board pursuant to
this Part during the pool period, by paying
upon surrender to it of each such certificate,
unless the Board by order waives such
surrender, to the person named therein, the
appropriate sum determined by the Board as
provided in this Act for each bushel of wheat
referred to therein according to grade.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the
Governor in Council, having regard to a
report by the Board of the effect on its
financial position of an interim payment on
account of the distribution of the balance
referred to in subsection (2), is of opinion that
an interim payment can be made without
loss, he may authorize and direct such
payment to be made.
(4) Expenses incurred by the Board with
respect to any international organization for
the purposes of marketing wheat, and the
expenses of any commissioner or officer of
the Board of and incidental to his attendance
at meetings of such an international organi
zation or any committee thereof shall be
deemed to be expenses incurred in connection
with the operations of the Board within the
meaning of this section, but nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to authorize the
payment by the Board of any contributions
required to be paid by Canada to or in
support of such an international organization
or any committee thereof.
(5) The Board shall, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, determine and fix
the amounts to which producers are entitled
per bushel according to grade under certifi
cates issued pursuant to this Part, it being the
true intent and meaning of this Part that
producer shall receive, in respect of
sold and delivered to the Board during
crop year for the same grade thereof, the
price basis Thunder Bay or Vancouver
and that each such price shall bear a proper
price relationship to that for each other grade.
  * (_g_) There is no liability on the Board in
respect of a certificate issued pursuant to this
Part except as provided in this section. R.S.,
c. 44,8.26; 1952-53, c. 26, s. 10.

**27.** The Board shall maintain separate
accounts with regard to its operations in
respect of wheat produced in the designated
area sold and delivered to it during each pool
period by producers. R.S., c. 44, s. 27.

**28.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by
regulation,
  * (_a_) prescribe the form of certificates to be
issued to producers delivering and selling
wheat to the Board, pursuant to section 25 ;
(6) prescribe the manner in which the Board
shall adjust its accounts for any pool period
in respect of overages, shortages, adjustment
of grades, mixing of wheat, residual amounts
of wheat remaining in accounts, and other
like matters ; and
  * (_c_) prescribe the conditions under which the
right to payment under a certificate issued
pursuant to this Part may be transferred.
(2) Except as provided by regulation, no
certificate issued pursuant to this Part or the
right to payment thereunder, shall be trans
ferred or assigned, and no person other than
the person therein named is entitled to
payment thereunder and a statement to that
effect shall be printed on each such certificate.
R.S., c. 44, s. 28.

**29.** The Governor in Council may author
ize the Board to adjust its accounts at any
time by transferring to the then current pool
all wheat delivered during a preceding
pool period and then remaining unsold, and
the Board shall credit to the accounts for that
pool period, and charge against the
accounts for the current pool period, such
amount as the Governor in Council deems to
be a reasonable price for the wheat so
transferred ; and all wheat so transferred shall,
  * (_a_) for the purposes of the accounts relating
to that preceding pool period, be deemed
to have been sold and paid for in full for
the said amount, and
  * (_b_) in the accounts relating to the current
pool period, be dealt with as though it had
been sold and delivered to the Board by
producers in the current pool period and
purchased by the Board for the said amount,
but no further certificates in respect thereof
shall be issued under paragraph 25(l)(c).
R.S., c. 44, s. 29.

**30.** (1) Where producers of any grain sold
and delivered during a pool period have been
for six years or more entitled to receive from
the Board payments in respect thereof under
certificates issued pursuant to this Act or out
of an equalization fund, or otherwise, and
there is an undistributed balance remaining
in the accounts of the Board in respect of
that grain, the Governor in Council may
authorize the Board
  * (_a_) to adjust its accounts
  * (_i_) by applying such undistributed bal
ance in payment of the expenses of
distribution of the balance mentioned in
subsection 26(2) with respect to the same
kind of grain in any earlier pool period,
and
  * (_ii_) by transferring the remainder of the
undistributed balance to a separate
account; and
(6) to pay to the persons who are entitled
to receive payments in respect of that grain
the amount to which they are entitled out
of such separate account.
(2) Any balance transferred to the separate
account pursuant to subparagraph (l)(a)(ii),
other than such part thereof as is required for
the payments referred to in paragraph (!)(&),
shall be used for such purposes as the Governor
in Council, upon the recommendation of the
Board, may deem to be for the benefit of
producers. 1952-53, c. 26, s. 11 ; 1962, c. 21, s. 5.
3 1. The provisions of the regulations made
by order of the Governor in Council of the
30th day of July 1946 (P.C. 3222) contained
in Part II of the said regulations shall be
deemed to have been revoked and the
provisions of this Part to be enacted in
substitution therefor. R.S., c. 44, s. 30.

**32.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by
regulation, apply the provisions of this Part,
except section 31, in respect of wheat produced
in any area in Canada outside the designated
area, specified in the regulation.
(2) For the purpose of the application of
this Part in respect of wheat produced in any
area specified in a regulation made under this
section,
"designated area" shall be construed as
referring to the area so specified ;
"pool period" means such period or periods,
not exceeding one year, as the Governor in
Council may from time to time prescribe as
a pool period or pool periods in respect of
such wheat. U.S., c. 44, s. 31.

## PART IV

## REGULATION OF INTERPROVINCIAL

## AND EXPORT TRADE IN WHEAT

**33.** Except as permitted under the regula
tions, no person other than the Board shall
  * (_a_) export from or import into Canada
wheat or wheat products owned by a person
other than the Board ;
(6) transport or cause to be transported
from one province to another province,
wheat or wheat products owned by a person
other than the Board ;
  * (_c_) sell or agree to sell wheat or wheat
products situated in one province for
delivery in another province or outside
Canada ; or
  * (_d_) buy or agree to buy wheat or wheat
products situated in one province for
delivery in another province or for delivery
outside Canada. R.S., c. 44, s. 32.
  * (_a_) to prescribe forms of documents that
may be required under this Part ;
(6) to exclude any kind of wheat, or any
grade thereof, or wheat produced in any
area in Canada, from the provisions of this
Part either in whole or in part, or generally,
or for any period ;
  * (_c_) to provide for the granting of licences
for the export from or import into Canada,
or for the sale or purchase for delivery
outside Canada, of wheat or wheat products,
that are otherwise prohibited under this
Part, and to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which such licences may
be granted, including a requirement for the
recovery from the applicant by the Board
or any other person specified by the
regulation, of a sum that, in the opinion of
the Board, represents the pecuniary benefit
enuring to the applicant pursuant to the
granting of the licence, arising solely by
reason of the prohibition of imports or
exports of wheat and wheat products
without a licence and then existing differ
ences between prices of wheat and wheat
products inside and outside Canada ;
  * (_d_) to provide for the granting of licences
for the transportation from one province to
another province, or the sale or purchase
for delivery anywhere in Canada, of wheat
or wheat products, that is otherwise prohib
ited under this Part, and to prescribe the
terms and conditions on which such licences
may be granted or the terms or conditions
of the permission granted in such licence ;
  * (_e_) to empower the Board to do such acts
and things as may be necessary for the
administration of this Part ; and
  * (_j_) to provide for any other matter necessary
to give effect to this Part. R.S., c. 44, s. 33.

# PARTY

## OATS AND BARLEY

**35.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
or of Part IV or of both Parts III and IV to
oats or to barley or to both oats and barley.
(2) Where the Governor in Council has
extended the application of any Part under
subsection (1), the provisions of the said Part
shall be deemed to be re-enacted in this Part,
subject to the following :
  * (_a_) the word "oats" or "barley", as the case
may be, shall be substituted for the word
"wheat";
(6) the expression "oat products" or "barley
products", as the case may be, shall be
substituted for the expression "wheat prod
ucts"
;
  * (_c_) the sum certain per bushel to be fixed
by the Governor in Council shall be fixed
in the case of oats in respect of the grade
No. 2 Canada Western and in the case of
barley in respect of the grade No. 3 Canada
Western Six-Row, and in both cases basis in
store Thunder Bay ;
  * (_d_) each pool period for the purposes of
Part III shall be a crop year as designated
by the Governor in Council ;
  * (_e_) section 24, the portion of paragraph
25(l)(b) following the phrase "in respect of
each other grade thereof", section 31 and
the definition "pool period" in subsection
32(2) are not applicable ; and
(/) such other modifications as the circum
stances may require.
(3) An extension of the application of Part
III shall come into force only at the beginning
of a crop year.
(4) For the purposes of this section
"barley product" means any substance pro
duced by processing or manufacturing
barley, alone or together with any other
material or substance, designated by the
Governor in Council by regulation as a
barley product for the purposes of this Part ;
"
oa t product" means any substance produced
by processing or manufacturing oats, alone
or together with any other material or
substance, designated by the Governor in
Council by regulation as an oat product for
the purposes of this Part. R.S., c. 44, s. 35.

## PART VI

## GENERAL

**36.** The Governor in Council may make
for any purpose for which regula
tions may be made under this Act. R.S., c. 44,

**36.**

**37.** Notwithstanding any other statute or
^ aw ^ e Board may authorize any person
with whom the Board enters or has entered
into an agreement relating to the handling or
receipt of grain for the Board, to borrow from
any bank on the security of grain delivered
to and received by any such person, and to
give security on such grain, in accordance
with the bank s usual requirements, and the
bank may take security on such grain under
section 86 or 88 of the Bank Act, and any such
person shall be deemed to be the owner of
such grain for all such purposes, and in case
of default by any such person the bank shall
sell or dispose of such grain to the Board
only, and the Board shall take delivery on
the terms of such agreement from the bank in
lieu of any such person, and pay to the bank
the Board s fixed carlot prices for such classes
and grades of grain delivered at Thunder Bay
or Vancouver or at such other delivery point
as may be authorized by the Board, together
with charges, allowances and costs provided
for in such agreements, and the security
thereupon ceases and the Board to that extent
has clear title to such grain ; and such
payments are to that extent a complete
fulfilment of the Board s obligations to any
such person in respect thereof as if such
payment were made to such person. R.S., c.
44, s. 37.

**38.** Notwithstanding any other statute or
the authorize a with
law &amp;gt; Board mav person
whom the Board enters into an agreement
relating to the forwarding or selling of grain
to borrow from any bank on the security of
the grain made available to such person by
and received by such person from the Board
and to give security on such grain in
accordance with the bank s usual requirements,
and the bank may take security on such grain
under the provisions of section 86 or section
88 of the Bank Act and any such person shall
all such purposes and in case of default by
any such person the bank shall sell or dispose
of such grain to the Board only and the
Board shall take delivery from the Bank in
of such person and pay to the bank the
Board s price for such grain as fixed at the
time of the making of such advances, delivered
at Thunder Bay or at such other delivery
point as may be authorized by the Board,
together with charges, allowances and costs of
transporting such grain to the delivery point ;
and the security thereupon ceases and the
Board has a clear title to such grain. R.S., c.
44, s. 38.
39, N O p ersO n shall mutilate or deface any
permit book or, except as permitted by the
Board, erase, alter or in any way change the
effect of an entry in a permit book. R.S., c.
44, s. 39.

**40.** (1) A person having the custody of a
permit book shall, at the request of any police
officer or any inspector appointed by the
Board, deliver such permit book to the police
officer or inspector.
(2) Where a permit book is delivered to a
police officer or inspector appointed by the
Board, the police officer or inspector, or any
other person acting on behalf of the Board,
may retain possession of the permit book for
a period not exceeding fifteen days, or, if an
information is laid against a person in respect
of an alleged contravention of this Act
relating to the permit book or the delivery of
any grain thereunder within the said period
of fifteen days, until all proceedings pursuant
to the information have been finally conclud
ed.
(3) Where a permit book has been delivered
to a police officer or inspector appointed by
the Board, the Board may, in the place of
returning the permit book to the person by
whom it was delivered as required by
subsection (2), issue a duplicate permit book
to him or confer a temporary permission to
deliver grain on any producer entitled to
deliver grain under the permit book, and in
such case the provisions of this section do not
require the permit book to be returned. R.S.,
c. 44, s. 40.

**41.** (1) Where any producer has delivered
to an elevator in contravention of this
or the orders of the Board, the Board
order the manager or operator of the
to redeliver grain of an equal grade,
quality and amount to the producer and the
producer to take delivery from the manager
or operator of the elevator of such grain and
to repay all moneys, if any, received by him
in respect of delivery of the first-mentioned
grain.
(2) Compliance by any person with an order
of the Board made under this section does
not relieve that person from any penalty
imposed by this Act in respect of any act or
omission by such person in contravention of
this Act or a regulation or order. R.S., c. 44,
s. 41.
Offences and Penalties

**42.** (1) Every person who
  * (_a_) being required to make any return or
declaration under this Act or any regulation
or order, furnishes any false information or
makes any false statement in such return or
declaration or fails fully to complete such
return or declaration,
(6) makes a false entry in any permit book
or other document required to be completed
by him under this Act, or
  * (_c_) contravenes or omits to comply with this
Act or any regulation or order,
is guilty of an offence and liable on summary
conviction
  * (_d_) in the case of a producer or operator of
an elevator convicted of an offence relating
to the delivery of grain, to a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months, or to both, and
  * (_e_) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding
five thousand dollars or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two years, or to
both.
(2) Where a corporation is guilty of an
participated in the commission of the offence,
is a party to and guilty of the offence. R.S.,
c. 44, s. 42.

**43.** Any contract or agreement for the sale,
, c t i
purchase, or transportation or wheat or wheat
products in contravention of this Act or of
any regulation or order is void. U.S., c. 44, s. 43.

**44.** j n an y proceedings in any court or
before any justice of the peace taken in
respect of any alleged contravention of this
Act or of a regulation or order, a document
purporting to be certified by a member of the
Board as a true copy of any order, licence or
document made, given or issued by or on
behalf of or under authority of the Board,
shall be received as evidence that the order,
licence or document of which it purports to
be a copy was so made, given or issued and
of such order, licence or document. R.S., c. 44,
s. 44.
Declaration

**45.** For greater certainty, but not so as to
restrict the generality of any declaration in
the Canada Grain Act that any elevator is a
work for the general advantage of Canada, it
is hereby declared that all flour mills, feed
mills, feed warehouses and seed cleaning
mills, whether heretofore constructed or
hereafter to be constructed, are and each of
them is hereby declared to be works or a work
for the general advantage of Canada, and,
without limiting the generality of the forego
ing, each and every mill or warehouse
mentioned or described in the schedule is a
work for the general advantage of Canada.
R.S., c. 44, s. 45.

**46.** Sections 12, 13, and 14 shall come into
force on a day to be fixed by proclamation of
the Governor in Council. R.S., c. 44, s. 46.
[See schedule on the following page.]
