Mortgage and Housing Corporation Act. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board of Directors" or "Board" means the
Board of Directors of the Corporation ;
"Corporation" means the Central Mortgage
and Housing Corporation ;
"director" means any member of the Board
of Directors ;
"Executive Committee" means the Executive
Committee of the Board ;
"Housing Acts" means the National Housing
Act, the National Housing Act, being chapter
188 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
1952, The National Housing Act, 1938, which
for the purposes of this Act includes Item
452 set out in Schedule B to The Appropria
tion Act, No. 5, 1942, The Home Improvement
Loans Guarantee Act, 1937, which for the
purposes of this Act includes Item 453 set
out in Schedule B to The Appropriation Act,
No. 5, 1942, and The Dominion Housing Act,
1935;
"lending institution" means a loan, insurance,
trust or other company or corporation,
trustee of trust funds, building society,
credit union or other cooperative credit
society authorized to lend money on the
security of real or immovable property ;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"mortgage" includes a hypothec and an
agreement for sale ;
"President" means the President of the
Corporation. R.S., c. 46, s. 2; 1965, c. 8, s. 1.

## PARTI
Constitution of Corporation

**3.** There is hereby established a corporation
called the "Central Mortgage and Housing
Corporation" consisting of the Minister and
those persons who from time to time comprise
the Board of Directors. R.S., c. 46, s. 3.

**4.** The head office of the Corporation shall
be in the city of Ottawa. R.S., c. 46, s. 4.

**5.** (i) Except as provided in section 14, the
Corporation is for all purposes an agent of
Her Majesty in right of Canada and its
powers under this Act may be exercised by it
only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(3) Property acquired by the Corporation
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Corporation
were not an agent of Her Majesty.
(5) The Corporation shall comply with any
directions from time to time given to it by
the Governor in Council or the Minister
respecting the exercise or performance of its
duties and functions. R.S., c. 46, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Board of Directors shall consist
the President, a Vice-President who shall
designated by the Governor in Council
and eight other members, three of whom shall
be selected from the public service of Canada
and five of whom shall be selected from
outside the public service of Canada.
(2) The three directors selected from the
public service of Canada shall be appointed
by the Governor in Council and hold office
during pleasure, and the five directors selected
from outside the public service of Canada
shall be appointed and hold office as provided
in section 8.
(3) Where a director is a member of the
public service of Canada, the Governor in
Council may authorize another member of
the public service of Canada to act as director
in his stead and the member while so acting
shall be deemed to be a director. R.S., c. 46,
s. 6; 1965, c. 8, s. 2.

**7.** (i) The Board, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, shall appoint and fix
the salaries of the President and three Vice-
Presidents.
(2) The President and Vice-Presidents hold
office during good behaviour for a term of
seven years but are removable by the Governor
in Council, on a resolution of the Board, for
permanent incapacity or for other cause.
(3) The President and Vice-Presidents on
the expiration of their term of office may, if
eligible, be re-appointed. 1965, c. 8, s. 3.

**8.** (1) The Minister, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, shall appoint five
directors to hold office during the following
terms :
  * (_a_) one director to hold office until the 1st
day of April 1949 ;
(6) two directors to hold office until the 1st
day of April 1950;
  * (_c_) two directors to hold office until the 1st
day of April 1951 ;
and shall, with the approval of the Governor
in Council, on the expiration of the terms of
office of the directors so appointed, and at
intervals of three years thereafter, appoint a
corresponding number of directors to hold
office for a term of three years.
(2) When in the opinion of the Board a
appointed under this section becomes
incapacitated, he may be
from office by resolution of the
Board approved by the Governor in Council.
(3) Where the office of a director becomes
vacant during the term of the director
appointed thereto, the Minister shall, with
the approval of the Governor in Council,
appoint a director for the remainder of that
term.
(4) A director on the expiration of his term
of office may, if eligible, be re-appointed.
(5) The directors appointed under this
section are entitled to receive for attendance
at directors meetings and Executive Com
mittee meetings, such fees as may be fixed by
the by-laws of the Corporation, but the
aggregate amount of the fees paid to all
directors, exclusive of expenses, shall not in
any year exceed ten thousand dollars. R.S., c.
46, s. 8.

**9.** (1) No person shall be appointed as
President or Vice-President or, under section
8, as a director, and no person shall continue
to hold any such office who
  * (_a_) is a director, officer or employee of a
lending institution,
(6) is not a Canadian citizen or otherwise a
British subject ordinarily resident in
Canada,
  * (_c_) has reached the age of seventy years, or
  * (_d_) is employed in any capacity in the
public service of Canada or of any province
of Canada or holds any office or position
for which any salary is payable out of
public moneys, but nothing in this para
graph prohibits the said persons from
holding office while performing temporary
services for the Government of Canada or
of any province.
(2) A person appointed as President or
Vice-President or, under section 8, as a
office have an interest either directly or
indirectly as a shareholder in a lending
institution.
(3) A person appointed as President or
Vice-President or, under section 8, as a
director, who fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (2) thereupon ceases
to hold office. R.S., c. 46, s. 9.

**10.** There shall be an Executive Committee
of the Board consisting of the President, the
Vice-President designated a member of the
Board by the Governor in Council, and two
other directors selected by the Board. 1965, c.
8, s. 4.
Conduct of Business of Corporation
1 1. (1) The Board shall manage the affairs
of the Corporation and conduct its business
and may for such purposes exercise all powers
of the Corporation.
(2) Each director has one vote in the
transaction of the business of the Board and
if the number of votes are equal the President
has an additional vote.
(3) The Board, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, may make by-laws not
inconsistent with this Act with respect to
  * (_a_) the calling of meetings of the Board
and of the Executive Committee and the
number of persons that shall constitute a
quorum in each case and the manner in
which questions considered at such meetings
shall be determined,
  * (_b_) the fees of directors, and
  * (_c_) the conduct of the affairs of the
Corporation.
(4) No by-law is effective until approved
by the Governor in Council and upon
becoming effective it shall be published in
the Canada Gazette. R.S., c. 46, s. 11.

**12.** The Executive Committee may exercise
the powers of the Board and shall submit at
each meeting of the Board minutes of its
proceedings since the last preceding meeting
of the Board. R.S., c. 46, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The President is the chairman of
the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation and has on behalf
of the Board the direction and control of the
of the Corporation with authority to
in the conduct of the business of the
in all matters that are not by
this Act or by the by-laws specifically reserved
to be done by the Board or by the Executive
Committee.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the President, or if the office of President
is vacant,
  * (_a_) the Vice-President designated a member
of the Board by the Governor in Council,
or
(6) in the event of the absence or incapacity
of the Vice-President referred to in para
graph (a) or if that office is vacant, such
director or officer of the company as shall
be designated by the Board,
has and may exercise and perform all the
powers and functions of the President. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 13; 1965, c. 8, s. 5.

**14.** (1) The Corporation may on its own
behalf employ such officers and employees
for such purposes and on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the
Executive Committee and such officers and
employees are not officers or servants of Her
Majesty.
(2) Each officer or employee employed by
the Corporation shall before entering upon
his duties, take, before a justice of the peace
or a commissioner for oaths, an oath of
fidelity and secrecy in the form prescribed in
the schedule.
(3) The Board may establish a pension
fund for the officers and employees of the
Corporation and their dependants and may
contribute to it out of the funds of the
Corporation and the pension fund shall be
invested in securities in which a trust company
may invest under the Trust Companies Act.
R.S., c. 46, s. 14.

**15.** The Corporation may establish bran
ches or employ agents in any part of Canada.
R.S., c. 46, s. 15.

**16.** The President may authorize any
officer, agent or employee of the Corporation
to act in the conduct of the business of the
Corporation in all matters which are not by
this Act or by the by-laws of the Corporation
or by the Executive Committee. R.S., c. 46,

**16.**
Capital

**17.** The Minister, at the request of the
Corporation and with the approval of the
Governor in Council, may, from time to time
out of unappropriated moneys in the Con
solidated Revenue Fund, pay to the Corpo
ration an amount or amounts not exceeding
a total amount of twenty-five million dollars,
which shall constitute the capital of the
Corporation. R.S., c. 46, s. 17.

## PART II
Business and Powers of the Corporation

**18.** The Corporation shall, on behalf of
Her Majesty and in the place of the Minister,
have, exercise and perform all rights, powers,
duties, liabilities and functions of the Minister
under the Housing Acts or under any contract
entered into under those Acts, except the
authority of the Minister under those Acts to
pay moneys out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund. R.S., c. 46, s. 18.

**19.** Wherever in any contract, agreement,
guarantee or mortgage made or entered into
under the Housing Acts prior to the 1st day
of January 1946 it is provided that any right,
power, duty, liability or function is vested in
or to be exercised or performed by the Minister
of Finance or by any officer of the Department
of Finance or by any person acting on behalf
of the Minister of Finance, that right, power,
duty, liability or function shall be vested in
and exercised or performed by the Corpora
tion. R.S., c. 46, s. 19.

**20.** The Corporation may, in the place of
the Minister, make, out of moneys received
by it under this Act or otherwise made
available to it by Parliament, all loans or
payments which Her Majesty or the Minister
may make or is liable to make under or
pursuant to the Housing Acts. R.S., c. 46,
s. 20.
2 1. (1) All moneys owing to Her Majesty
paid to the Corporation and payment
thereof to the Corporation is payment to Her
Majesty.
(2) Where any moneys owing to Her Majesty
under or pursuant to the Housing Acts are,
after the 1st day of January 1946, paid to the
Receiver General or to any other person on
behalf of Her Majesty or are in any way paid
into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, those
moneys shall be paid to the Corporation.
R.S., c. 46, s. 21.

**22.** (1) The Minister may, at the request
of the Corporation and with the approval of
the Governor in Council, on such terms and
conditions as he may determine, from time to
time advance to the Corporation
  * (_a_) out of unappropriated moneys in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, amounts not
exceeding the total of the moneys due or
accruing due to Her Majesty immediately
before the 1st day of January 1946 under
the Housing Acts and that remain unpaid,
and
(6) out of moneys appropriated under the
National Housing Act, 1944, with which the
Minister was authorized before the 1st day
of January 1946 to make loans on behalf of
Her Majesty or out of moneys otherwise
appropriated by Parliament to be lent by
the Minister to the Corporation for that
purpose, amounts not exceeding at any
time the total of moneys payable to Her
Majesty in respect of loans made on behalf
of Her Majesty under the National Housing
Act or chapter 188 of the Revised Statutes
of Canada, 1952, on or after the 1st day of
January 1946.
(2) Advances made by the Minister to the
Corporation under this section may be
evidenced by debentures or other evidences
of indebtedness furnished by the Corporation
to the Minister, as the Minister may require.
R.S., c. 46, s. 22.

**23.** The Corporation is liable to repay
advances made to it by the Minister under
section 22 out of moneys received by it under
this Act in such manner that the total amount
of the said advances owing by it shall not, at
any time, exceed the aggregate of
  * (_a_) the total amount payable to the Corpo
ration under or pursuant to section 21, and
  * (_b_) the total investment of the Corporation
in real or immovable property acquired by
the Corporation pursuant to a loan under
The Dominion Howing Act, 1935, The
National Housing Act, 1938, chapter 188 of
the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, or
the National Housing Act, or deemed, by
subsection 45(3) of chapter 188 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, or by
subsection 55(3) of the National Housing
Act, to be vested in the Corporation. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 23.

**24.** The Minister shall reimburse the Cor
poration
  * (_a_) for losses sustained by it in respect of
Her Majesty s share of loans made under
the Housing Acts other than the National
Housing Act and chapter 188 of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1952, out of unappro
priated moneys in the Consolidated Reve
nue Fund ;
(6) for losses sustained by it in respect of
Her Majesty s share of loans made by Her
Majesty jointly with any other person, or
in respect of loans made by Her Majesty
alone, under the National Housing Act or
chapter 188 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1952, whether made before or after
the 1st day of January 1946, out of moneys
appropriated under those Acts for the
making of those loans by the Minister ;
  * (_c_) for payments made by it to discharge
liabilities of Her Majesty under any
contract, agreement or guarantee made or
entered into under the Housing Acts,
whether made or entered into before or
after the 1st day of January 1946, out of
moneys appropriated for the payment by
the Minister of such liabilities under The
Home Improvement Loans Guarantee Act,
being chapter 11 of the Statutes of Canada,
1937, chapter 188 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1952, and the National Housing
Act, as the case may be ;
  * (_d_) for payments made by it to a bank or
an approved instalment credit agency under
Part IV of the National Housing Act or Part
IV of chapter 188 of the Revised Statutes
of Canada, 1952, out of moneys appropriat
ed for such payments by the Minister under
those Parts; and
  * (_e_) for expenditures incurred by the Corpo
ration under any contract not referred to in
paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) entered into
under the National Housing Act or chapter
188 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
1952, out of moneys appropriated for the
payment of those expenditures by the
Minister under those Acts or otherwise
appropriated by Parliament therefor. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 24.

**25.** The total amount of loans made or
guarantees entered into by the Corporation
on behalf of Her Majesty under the National
Housing Act or chapter 188 of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1952, for any purpose
specified in those Acts, shall not, together
with any loans or guarantees made or entered
into by the Minister on behalf of Her Majesty
under the National Housing Act, 1944, before
the 1st day of January 1946 for any purpose
specified in that Act, exceed the total amount
of the loans or guarantees for the said
purposes for which moneys are appropriated
under the said Acts or are otherwise appro
priated by Parliament and made available to
the Corporation for the said purposes. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 25.

**26.** The Corporation shall conduct research
into the business of lending money on the
security of mortgages and for that purpose
shall compile information relating thereto.
R.S., c. 46, s. 26.

**27.** The Corporation may enter into an
agreement with a lending institution under
which the lending institution agrees to furnish
to the Corporation information in respect of
interest rates, losses on loans secured by
mortgages, costs of construction and of land,
comparative rentals, availability of money
for loans on the security of mortgages in
different parts of Canada, costs of operation
of the business of lending money on the
security of mortgages, methods of appraising
real and immovable property and such other
information as may assist the Corporation in
research into the conduct of the business of
lending money on the security of mortgages
and under which the Corporation will agree
to furnish to the lending institution informa
tion and material relating to the lending of
money on the security of mortgages. R.S., c.
46, s. 27.

**28.** (1) Where the Corporation has entered
into an agreement with a lending institution
under section 27, the Corporation may out of
its capital and reserve fund established under
section 30 or out of such other moneys as may
be appropriated by Parliament for that
purpose
  * (_a_) purchase all right or interest of the
lending institution in a mortgage and take
an assignment of the mortgage,
(6) if the lending institution is a trust or
loan company, make loans to the company
on such terms and conditions including the
rate of interest, as the Board may determine,
upon the security of an assignment of or an
agreement to assign mortgages held by the
company, and
  * (_c_) if the lending institution is a trust or
loan company, buy the debentures or other
evidences of indebtedness, guaranteed
investment receipts or guaranteed invest
ment certificates of the company,
and the Corporation may sell to any person
all right or interest of the Corporation in any
mortgage held by it and assign the mortgage
to that person.
(2) The Corporation may acquire, hold and
dispose of collateral security for the repayment
of loans or the payment of debentures, other
evidences of indebtedness, guaranteed invest
ment receipts or guaranteed investment
certificates, made or purchased by the Corpo
ration under this section. R.S., c. 46, s. 28.
Ancillary Powers

**29.** (1) The Corporation may,
  * (_a_) in realizing upon any mortgage or other
security, assigned to or acquired by the
Corporation, take title to real or immovable
property and may sell or dispose of such
property ;
(6) acquire and hold real or immovable
property for its actual use in operation and
management of its business, sell or dispose
of such property and acquire other such
property in its stead for the same purposes ;
  * (_c_) open deposit accounts with the Bank of
Canada or any chartered bank ;
  * (_d_) invest in securities of or guaranteed by
Canada ;
  * (_e_) borrow from the Minister and expend
moneys appropriated by Parliament to be
lent by the Minister to the Corporation or
expend any moneys appropriated by Par
liament to be expended by the Corporation,
for the purposes for which such moneys are
appropriated ;
(/) exercise or perform any other powers,
duties or functions conferred on or required
to be performed by the Corporation under
any other Act or order in council ; and
  * (_g_) do any act or thing incidental to the
conduct of the business of the Corporation.
(2) Where title to real or immovable
property becomes vested in the name of the
Corporation or of Her Majesty, whether alone
or jointly with any other person, in conse
quence of foreclosure or other proceedings
taken in respect of a mortgage assigned to the
Corporation or to which Her Majesty is a
party under the Housing Acts, the Corporation
may pay to a municipal or other taxing
authority an amount equivalent to the taxes
that might be levied in respect of that
property or of the interest of the Corporation
or of Her Majesty therein by that authority
if the property or interest were not so vested,
and may enter into such agreements as may
be necessary to give effect to this subsection.
R.S., c. 46, s. 29.
Reserve

**30.** The Corporation shall establish a
reserve fund and the profits of the Corporation
in each fiscal year remaining after such
provision as the Board thinks proper for bad
and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets and
all such other matters as in the opinion of the
Board should be provided for, shall be credited
to the reserve fund, but when the reserve fund
has reached a total of five million dollars,
any profits of the Corporation that would be
credited to the reserve fund shall be paid to
the Receiver General. R.S., c. 46, s. 30.

## PART III
Audit
3 1. (1) The Minister, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, shall appoint two
auditors to hold office for a term not exceeding
two years, to audit the affairs of the
Corporation.
(2) No person is eligible to be an auditor
unless he resides in Canada, is an accountant
who has for at least six years preceding the
date of his appointment practised his profes
sion in Canada, and is a member in good
standing of an institute or association of
accountants incorporated under the authority
of the legislature of any province of Canada.
(3) No person is eligible to be an auditor if
he or any member of his firm has been auditor
for two successive years during the three next
preceding years.
(4) When any vacancy occurs in the office
of the auditor of the Corporation, notice
thereof shall forthwith be given by the
Corporation to the Minister who thereupon
shall appoint some other auditor to serve
until the last day of February next following.
(5) No director or officer of the Corporation
and no member of a firm of auditors of which
a director is a member, is eligible for
appointment as an auditor.
(6) The Minister may from time to time
require the auditors to report to him upon the
adequacy of the procedure adopted by the
Corporation for the protection of its creditors
and as to the sufficiency of their procedure in
auditing the affairs of the Corporation; and
the Minister may, in his discretion, enlarge or
extend the scope of the audit or direct that
any other procedure be established or that
any other examination be made by the
auditors as the public interest may seem to
require.
(7) A copy of every report made by the
auditors to the Corporation under this section
shall be transmitted to the Minister by the
auditors at the same time as such report is
transmitted to the Corporation. R.S., c. 46,
s. 31.
Fiscal Year of Corporation

**32.** The fiscal year of the Corporation is
the calendar year. R.S., c. 46, s. 32.
Returns

**33.** (1) Within ten weeks after the end of
each fiscal year, the Corporation shall transmit
to the Minister a statement, in the form
prescribed by its by-laws, of its accounts for
the fiscal year, signed by the President and
the Chief Accountant or Acting Chief
Accountant and certified by the auditors of
the Corporation, together with such report as
the Board may deem desirable or as may be
required by the Minister.
(2) A copy of the accounts so signed and
certified and of the report of the Board shall
be forthwith published in the Canada Gazette
and if Parliament is then sitting, shall, within
fourteen days after the receipt thereof by the
Minister, be laid before Parliament or if
Parliament is not sitting, shall be laid before
Parliament within fourteen days after the
commencement of the next ensuing session.
(3) As soon as practicable after the end of
each calendar year, the Board shall prepare a
report with regard to the administration of
the affairs of the Corporation during the
preceding calendar year, and the report shall
be laid before Parliament at the same time as
the copy of the accounts and report mentioned
in subsection (2). R.S., c. 46, s. 33; 1965, c. 8,
s. 6.

**34.** The Corporation shall furnish to the
Minister from time to time or periodically at
such times and in such manner as he may
require, such statements or reports with regard
to any or all of its business under this Act as
he may require. R.S., c. 46, s. 34.

**35.** Every officer or auditor of the Corpo
ration who verifies any statement, account or
list required to be furnished to the Minister
pursuant to this Act, or who participates in
their delivery or transmission to the Minister
knowing that they are false in any material
particular, is guilty of an indictable offence
and liable to imprisonment for not more than
five years and not less than six months. R.S.,
c. 46, s. 35.
General

**36.** No Act relating to the insolvency or
winding-up of any corporation applies to the
Corporation and in no case shall the affairs
thereof be wound up unless Parliament so
provides. R.S., c. 46, s. 36.
Approval of 37. Where under the Housing Acts any act,
Governor Council on in matter or thing , . to be done , by the , , Minister , , . .
recommendation requires the approval of the Governor in
of Minister Council or where the Governor in Council
may make any orders or regulations on the
recommendation of the Minister, the approval
or the orders or regulations may be made on
a recommendation of the Minister. R.S., c. 46,
s. 38.
Assistance from 38. The minister of any department, or
government
services the officer in charge of any branch or portion
of the Government of Canada, or any agent
of Her Majesty in right of Canada, may,
upon request of the Corporation and with the
approval of the Governor in Council, agree
to assist the Corporation on such terms and
conditions as may be approved by the
Governor in Council by providing such
services as the Executive Committee may
deem advisable for carrying out the business
of the Corporation. R.S., c. 46, s. 40.

## SCHEDULE

## OATH OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY
I, , do solemnly swear that I will faithfully,
truly and to the best of my judgment, skill and ability, execute
and perform the duties required of me as a director (officer or
employee as the case may be) of the Central Mortgage and
Housing Corporation and which properly relate to any office
or position in the said Corporation held by me.
I further solemnly swear that I will not communicate or
allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled
thereto any information relating to the affairs of the Corpora
tion, nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access
to any books or documents belonging to or in the possession of
the Corporation and relating to the business of the Corporation.
R.S, c. 46, Sch.
