
# CHAPTER C-2
Act for the establishment of a Canada
Council for the encouragement of the
arts, humanities and social sciences

## SHORT TITLE
\, This Act may be cited as the Canada
Council Act. 1957, c. 3, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act the expression "the arts"
includes architecture, the arts of the theatre,
literature, music, painting, sculpture, the
graphic arts, and other similar creative and
interpretative activities. 1957, c. 3, s. 2.

## CANADA COUNCIL

**3.** A corporation is hereby established, to
be known as the Canada Council, (and in
French, as le Conseil des Arts du Canada), in
this Act called the "Council", consisting of a
Chairman and Vice-Chairman and not more
than nineteen other members, to be appointed
by the Governor in Council as provided in
section 4. 1957, c. 3, s. 3.

## MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL

**4.** (1) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman
of the Council shall be appointed for such
terms, not exceeding five years each, as are
fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) Each of the other members of the
Council shall be appointed for a term of three
except that of those first appointed not
more than six shall be appointed for a term
two years, not more than six shall be
for a term of three years and not
than seven shall be appointed for a term
four years.
(3) A person who has served two consecutive
terms as the Chairman of the Council or as
the Vice-Chairman of the Council or as a
member of the Council appointed under
subsection (2) is not, during the twelve months
following the completion of his second term,
eligible to be re-appointed to the Council in
the capacity in which he so served. 1957, c. 3,
s. 4.

## DIRECTOR AND ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR

**5.** There shall be a Director and an
Associate Director of the Council to be
appointed by the Governor in Council to hold
office during pleasure. 1957, c. 3, s. 5.

## REMUNERATION AND ALLOWANCES

**6.** (1) The Chairman, Vice-Chairman,
Director and Associate Director may be paid
such salary or other amount by way of
remuneration, and the members of the Council
appointed under subsection 4(2) may be paid
such allowance for each day while in
attendance at meetings of the Council, as is
fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) The Director and Associate Director and
the members of the Council may be paid
reasonable travelling and living expenses
incurred by them while absent from their
ordinary place of residence in the course of
their duties. 1957, c. 3, s. 6.

## EMPLOYEES

**7.** The Council may appoint and pay the
remuneration and expenses of the employees
and the technical and professional advisers
necessary for the proper conduct of its
activities. 1957, c. 3, s. 7.

## OBJECTS AND POWERS OF THE COUNCIL

**8.** (1) The objects of the Council are to
foster and promote the study and enjoyment
of, and the production of works in, the arts,
humanities and social sciences, and, in
particular, but without limiting the generality
the foregoing, the Council may, in
of its objects,
  * (_a_) assist, cooperate with and enlist the aid
of organizations, the objects of which are
similar to any of the objects of the Council ;
  * (_b_) provide, through appropriate organiza
tions or otherwise, for grants, scholarships
or loans to persons in Canada for study or
research in the arts, humanities or social
sciences in Canada or elsewhere or to
persons in other countries for study or
research in such fields in Canada ;
  * (_c_) make awards to persons in Canada for
outstanding accomplishment in the arts,
humanities or social sciences ;
  * (_d_) arrange for and sponsor exhibitions,
performances and publications of works in
the arts, humanities or social sciences;
  * (_e_) exchange with other countries or organ
izations or persons therein knowledge and
information respecting the arts, humanities
and social sciences ; and
  * (_f_) arrange for representation and interpre
tation of Canadian arts, humanities and
social sciences in other countries.
(2) The Governor in Council may assign to
the Council such functions and duties in
relation to the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization as he
considers desirable. 1957, c. 3, s. 8.

**9.** The Council may, in furtherance of its
objects, make grants to universities and similar
institutions of higher learning by way of
capital assistance in respect of building
construction projects. 1957, c. 3, s. 9.

**10.** The Council may make by-laws regu
lating its proceedings and generally for the
conduct and management of its activities,
including the appointment of honorary offic
ers and of advisory committees. 1957, c. 3, s.

**10.**

**11.** The Council shall meet at least three
times a year in the city of Ottawa on such
days as are fixed by the Council and at such
times and places as the Council deems
1957, c. 3, s. 11.

**12.** The Director and Associate Director
and the employees of the Council shall be
deemed to be employed in the Public Service
for the purposes of the Public Service
Superannuation Act, and the Council shall be
deemed to be a Public Service corporation for
the purposes of section 25 of that Act. 1957, c.
3, s. 12.

**13.** The Council is not an agent of Her
Majesty, and, except as provided in section
12, the members and employees and the
Director and Associate Director of the Council
are not part of the public service of Canada.
1957, c. 3, s. 13.
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

**14.** The Minister of Finance may, out of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund, pay to the
Council the sum of fifty million dollars, which
shall constitute an Endowment Fund for the
purposes of this Act. 1957, c. 3, s. 14.

**15.** The Minister of Finance may, during
the first year after the coming into force of
this Act, advance to the Council, out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, amounts not
exceeding in the aggregate one hundred
thousand dollars, upon such terms and
conditions as to interest, terms of repayment
and otherwise as are approved by the Governor
in Council. 1957, c. 3, s. 15.

**16.** Any expenditure made for any of the
purposes of this Act, except section 9, may be
paid out of
  * (_a_) the return on investments made out of
the Endowment Fund ;
  * (_b_) the amount advanced to the Council
under section 15; or
  * (_c_) money, securities or other property
received by the Council by gift, bequest or
otherwise, if available for such purpose.
1957, c. 3, s. 16.
.17. (1) The Council shall establish a fund
to be called the University Capital Grants
Fund, to which shall be credited the sum of
fifty million dollars, which shall be paid to
the Council by the Minister of Finance out
of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(2) Grants made by the Council under
9 may be paid out of the University
Grants Fund, but shall not exceed
  * (_a_) in the case of any particular project,
one-half of the total expenditures made in
respect of the project ; and
(6) in any province, an amount that is in
the same proportion to the aggregate of the
amounts credited to the University Capital
Grants Fund as the population of the
province, according to the latest census, is
to the aggregate population, according to
such census, of those provinces in which
there is a university or other similar
institution of higher learning.
(3) Investments out of money standing to
the credit of the University Capital Grants
Fund may be made only in bonds or other
securities of or guaranteed by the Government
of Canada. 1957, c. 3, s. 17.

**18.** (1) There shall be an Investment
Committee consisting of the Chairman of the
Council, a member of the Council designated
by the Council and three other persons
appointed by the Governor in Council.
(2) The Investment Committee shall aid
and advise the Council in making, managing
and disposing of investments under this Act.
(3) The members of the Investment Com
mittee appointed by the Governor in Council
may be paid for their services such remuner
ation and expenses as are fixed by the
Governor in Council. 1957, c. 3, s. 18.

**19.** (1) The Council may, for the purposes
of this Act, acquire, hold, manage and dispose
of real and personal property, and, subject to
any other provision of this Act relating
thereto and on the advice of the Investment
Committee, may invest in any manner it sees-
fit any money standing to the credit of the
Endowment Fund or the University Capital
Grants Fund or any money received by the
Council by gift, bequest or otherwise, and
may hold, manage and dispose of any such
investment.
(2) The proceeds of the sale or other
disposition of any investment made out of
the Endowment Fund or the University
Capital Grants Fund shall be credited to the
fund out of which the investment was made.
1957, c. 3, s. 19.

**20.** The Council may acquire money,
securities or other property by gift, bequest or
otherwise and may, notwithstanding anything
in this Act, expend, administer or dispose of
any such money, securities or other property
not forming part of the Endowment Fund or
the University Capital Grants Fund, subject
to the terms, if any, upon which such money,
securities or other property was given,
bequeathed or otherwise made available to
the Council. 1957, c. 3, s. 20.

**21.** The Council shall be deemed to be a
charitable organization in Canada
  * (_a_) as described in paragraph 69(1)(/) of the
Income Tax Act, for the purposes of that
Act, and
(6) as described in subparagraph 7(l)(d)(i)
of the Estate Tax Act, for the purposes of
that Act. 1957, c. 3, s. 21 ; 1957, c. 22, ss. 2,
3; 1960, c. 29, s. 13.

## AUDIT

**22.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Council shall be audited annually by
the Auditor General of Canada, and a report
of the audit shall be made to the Council and
to the member of the Queen s Privy Council
for Canada designated under section 23. 1957,
c. 3, s. 22.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**23.** The Chairman of the Council shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, submit to the member of the
Queen s Privy Council for Canada designated
by the Governor in Council for the purpose a
report of all proceedings under this Act for
that fiscal year, including the financial
of the Council, and the Auditor
General s report thereon, and the member so
designated shall cause such reports to be laid
before Parliament within fifteen days after
the receipt thereof or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first fifteen days
next thereafter that Parliament is sitting and
provision shall be made for a review thereof
by Parliament. 1957, c. 3, s. 23.
