War Pensions and Allowances Act. R.S., c. 51,
s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In Parts I to X
"Commission" means the Canadian Pension
Commission ;
"War" means the war waged by His Majesty
and His Majesty s Allies against Germany
and Germany s Allies, which for the
purposes of this Act shall be deemed to
have commenced on the 1st day of
September 1939, and to have terminated on
the 1st day of April 1947. R.S., c. 51, s. 2;
1962, c. 11, s. 1.

**3.** All claims for pensions, allowances and
compensation under Parts I to X shall be
dealt with and adjudicated upon in like
manner as claims under the Pension Act and
all the provisions of the Pension Act not
inconsistent with Parts I to X, with such
modifications as circumstances may require,
apply to every claim under Parts I to X. 1962,
c. ll,s.2.

**4.** Every department of Government shall
furnish the Commission with such information
and material as the Commission may from
time to time require for the purpose of
considering applications for pensions, allow
ances and compensation under Parts I to X.
1962, c. 11, s. 2.

## PARTI

## MERCHANT SEAMEN, SALT

## WATER FISHERMEN
Interpretation

**5.** In this Part
national" means a Canadian
national as defined in the Canadian
Nationals Act, chapter 21 of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1927;
"Canadian salt-water fisherman" means a
British subject who served upon a ship
engaged in the fishing industry of Canada
in Canadian tidal waters;
"Canadian ship" means a ship of Canadian
registry or licence certified as such by the
Director of Marine Services of the Depart
ment of Transport, but does not include a
ship under bareboat charter to any charterer
resident outside Canada ;
"certified non-Canadian ship" means a ship,
other than a Canadian ship, when employed
on a voyage that the Director of Marine
Services of the Department of Transport
certifies was essential to the prosecution of
the War on behalf of His Majesty or His
Majesty s allies ;
"enemy action, or counter-action against the
enemy" includes extraordinary marine haz
ards occasioned by the War and encountered
by a Canadian ship or by a certified non-
Canadian ship when employed on a voyage
that in the opinion of the Commission was
essential to the prosecution of the War on
behalf of His Majesty or His Majesty s
allies ;
"ship" includes every description of vessel
used in navigation and not propelled by
oars. R.S., c. 51, s. 5.

**6.** For the purposes of this Part the class
of a vessel, the nature of the trade in which a
vessel is engaged, and the status of the
members of the crew, shall be determined
according to the Canada Shipping Act and
regulations made thereunder. R.S., c. 51, s. 6.
Pensions for Disability and Death

**7.** (i) Subject to this Part, pensions shall
be awarded in accordance with the rates set
forth in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act
for members of the naval forces of Canada or
the Canadian Forces to or in respect of,
  * (_a_) persons who, while serving upon any
Canadian ship,
(6) Canadian nationals who, while serving
upon any certified non-Canadian ship, and
  * (_c_) Canadian salt-water fishermen who,
while serving upon a ship engaged in the
fishing industry of Canada in Canadian
tidal waters,
during the War and as a direct result of
enemy action, or counter-action taken against
the enemy, suffered injury or disease or
aggravation thereof resulting in disability or
death.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, injury or
disease or aggravation thereof shall be deemed
to have been suffered while serving upon a
Canadian ship or upon a certified non-
Canadian ship where it was suffered by a
person while he was outside Canada and
  * (_a_) was proceeding by sea, land or air to a
Canadian ship or to a certified non-
Canadian ship for the purpose of being in
the service thereof,
(6) was returning by sea, land or air to
Canada or to the country of which he was
a citizen or national, from a Canadian ship
or from a certified non-Canadian ship after
being in the service thereof, or
  * (_c_) was on leave from a Canadian ship or
from a certified non-Canadian ship that
was in a port outside Canada. R.S., c. 51, s.
7; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**8.** The rate of pension to be awarded to or
in respect of a person mentioned in section 7
shall be determined according to the rank or
rating of the naval forces of Canada or the
Canadian Forces assigned to such person s
status by the following table :
Canadian Ships
Status Rank or Rating
  * (_a_) Ship in Foreign Trade
  * (_i_) Master Commander (Naval),
Lieutenant-Colonel
(Canadian Forces)
  * (_ii_) Chief Officer Lieutenant-Commander (Naval),
Major (Canadian Forces)
  * (_iii_) Chief
Engineer Commander (Naval),
Lieutenant-Colonel,
(Canadian Forces)
  * (_iv_) Second
Engineer Lieutenant-Commander (Naval),
Major (Canadian Forces)
  * (_v_) Other
Navigating
and Engineer
Officers
Purser
Surgeon
Chief
Steward Lieutenant (Naval),
Wireless Captain (Canadian Forces)
Officer of 10
years or more
seniority
  * (_vi_) All other
officers Sub-Lieutenant (Naval),
Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
  * (_b_) Ship in Home Trade
  * (_i_) Master Lieutenant (Naval),
Captain (Canadian Forces)
  * (_ii_) Allother
officers .. Sub-Lieutenant (Naval),
Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
  * (_c_) Ship in Inland and Minor Waters Trade
  * (_i_) Master Lieutenant (Naval),
Captain (Canadian Forces)
  * (_ii_) All other
officers Sub-Lieutenant (Naval),
Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
  * (_d_) All trades
  * (_i_) All other
members of
the crew Able Seaman (Naval),
Private (Canadian Forces)
  * (_e_) Pilots
  * (_i_) Licensed
Pilots Lieutenant (Naval),
Captain (Canadian Forces)
  * (_ii_) Licensed
Apprentice
Pilots Sub-Lieutenant (Naval),
Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
  * (_a_) Master of
fishing boats
of 60 registered
tons or over ... Lieutenant (Naval),
Captain (Canadian Forces)
  * (_b_) Master of
other fishing
boats Sub-Lieutenant (Naval),
Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
  * (_c_) Other
members of
the crew Able Seaman (Naval),
Private (Canadian Forces)
1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.
Application for 9. (1) Subject to subsection (2), no pension
disability shall be awarded under this Part unless an
pension
application was made therefor within one
year after the occurrence of the disability in
respect of which the pension is claimed.
Extension of (2) Where it is established to the satisfaction
time
of the Commission that lack of communication
facilities prevented a person from making an
application within the time limited by
subsection (1), the Commission may, on special
application in that behalf, extend the time
within which an application for pension may
be made. R.S., c. 51, s. 9.
Compensation 10. No pension shall be awarded under
otherwise
payable this Part in respect of any disability or death
for which compensation is payable under any
workmen s compensation or similar laws unless
evidence satisfactory to the Commission is
provided that a claim for such compensation
has not been made and unless the person
entitled to such compensation submits to the
Commission a waiver, in a form approved by
the Commission, of all claims for such
compensation in respect of such disability or
death. R.S., c. 51, s. 10.
Presumption of 11. The Commission may for the purposes
death
of this Part presume death in every case
where, according to the evidence available as
to the circumstances surrounding the disap
pearance of the person whose death is in
question or loss of the ship upon which he
was serving, the Commission is satisfied
beyond a reasonable doubt that the death has
in fact occurred. R.S., c. 51, s. 11.
from 12. Notwithstanding anything in this Part,
the Commission shall deduct from the pension
otherwise payable under this Part to any
person in respect of death or disability of a
Canadian national who served on a certified
non-Canadian ship, the amount of pension
payable to such person in respect of such
death or disability under the laws of the
country in which the ship was registered or
licensed or to which it was chartered. R.S., c.
51, s. 12.

**13.** Notwithstanding anything in this Part,
where a person entitled to a pension under
this Part is not a Canadian citizen and is not
a resident of Canada the Commission may,
in lieu of that pension, award such pension or
such lump sum as the Commission deems
commensurate with the pension that would
be payable under this Part to such person if
he were a Canadian citizen or a resident of
Canada, having regard to comparative living
costs and such other matters that may affect
the value of the pension, but no pension or
amount awarded under this section shall
exceed the amount of pension that would be
payable to such person under this Part if he
were a Canadian citizen or a resident of
Canada. R.S., c. 51, s. 13.
Detention Allowances

**14.** (1) In any case where
  * (_a_) a person, while serving upon a Canadian
ship during the War, or
(6) a Canadian national, while serving upon
a certified non-Canadian ship, or upon a
ship engaged in the fishing industry of
Canada in Canadian tidal waters
was detained by a foreign country and by
reason of such detention payment of remu
neration to him or on his behalf for such
service was discontinued, in whole or in part,
by his employer, the Commission may, subject
to this section, award to such person a
detention allowance equal to the amount by
the remuneration received by him
immediately prior to such detention was so
(2) In the case of a person who served upon
a ship engaged in the fishing industry and
who at the time of his detention was engaged
in a profit-sharing venture, the rate of
remuneration received by him immediately
prior to his detention is, for the purposes of
subsection (1), deemed to be the average
monthly remuneration received by him for
the twelve months immediately preceding his
detention.
(3) In the case of a Canadian national who
served upon a certified non-Canadian ship
the Commission shall deduct from the
allowance otherwise payable to him under
this section the amount of any detention or
similar allowance payable to him under the
laws of the country in which the ship was
registered or licensed or to which it was
chartered. R.S., c. 51, s. 14.

**15.** The Commission may pay to the
dependants of a person to whom an allowance
is awarded under section 14 such portion of
the allowance as the Commission in its
discretion deems reasonable, and the remain
der of the amount so awarded shall be paid
to such person or to his legal representatives
upon termination of the detention in respect
of which the allowance was awarded. R.S., c.
51, s. 15.

**16.** For the purposes of this Part, a person
who served upon a certified non-Canadian
ship and at the time he entered such service
was domiciled in Newfoundland is deemed to
be a Canadian national, and a ship engaged
in the fishing industry of Newfoundland in
Newfoundland tidal waters is deemed to be a
ship engaged in the fishing industry of
Canada in Canadian tidal waters. R.S., c. 51,
s. 16.

## PART II

## AUXILIARY SERVICES PERSONNEL
Interpretation

**17.** In this Part
"helper" means a person who was employed
and paid by Canadian Legion War Services
Inc., The National Council of the Young
Men s Christian Association of Canada,
Knights of Columbus Canadian Army Huts,
or Salvation Army Canadian War Services,
to assist supervisors and who proceeded
from Canada for attachment to
  * (_a_) the Canadian naval forces under the
authority of the Chief of Naval Personnel,
(6) active units and formations of the
Canadian army forces under the authority
of the Adjutant-General, or
  * (_c_) active units and formations of the
Canadian air forces under the authority of
the Air Member for Personnel ;
"member of the Overseas Headquarters Staff"
i
means a person who is not a supervisor or
helper and who was a member of the
Headquarters Staff of, and was employed
and paid by Canadian Legion War Services
Inc., The National Council of the Young
Men s Christian Association of Canada,
Knights of Columbus Canadian Army Huts,
or Salvation Army Canadian War Services,
and who proceeded from Canada under the
authority of the Chief of Naval Personnel,
the Adjutant-General or Air Member for
Personnel ;
supervisor" means an authorized field
representative of Canadian Legion War
Services Inc., The National Council of the
Young Men s Christian Association of
Canada, Knights of Columbus Canadian
Army Huts, or Salvation Army Canadian
War Services, who directly provided services
and recreational equipment to any of the
naval, army or air forces of Canada and
who was selected and approved by, and
proceeded from Canada under the authority
of the Chief of Naval Personnel, the
Adjutant-General or Air Member for Per
sonnel. R.S., c. 51, s. 17.
Supervisors

**18.** In respect of their service as supervisors
rendered between the time of embarkation for
service outside of Canada and the termination
of such service by the appropriate naval, army
or air force authorities, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
Captain (Army) or Captain (Canadian Forces)
to or in respect of supervisors who suffered
injury or disease or aggravation thereof
resulting in disability or death attributable to
or incurred during such service. R.S., c. 51, s.
18; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.
Helpers

**19.** In respect of their service as helpers
rendered between the time of embarkation for
service outside of Canada and the termination
of such service by the appropriate naval, army
or air force authorities, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
Lieutenant (Army) or Lieutenant (Canadian
Forces) to or in respect of helpers who suffered
injury or disease or aggravation thereof
resulting in disability or death attributable to
or incurred during such service. R.S., c. 51, s.
19; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.
Overseas Headquarters Staff

**20.** Subject to section 21, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
Lieutenant (Army) or Lieutenant (Canadian
Forces) to or in respect of members of the
Overseas Headquarters staff who, during their
service as such and as a direct result of enemy
action, or counter-action against the enemy
during the War, suffered injury or disease or
aggravation thereof resulting in disability or
death. R.S., c. 51, s. 20; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**21.** Whenever the appropriate naval, army
or air force authorities certify that a member
of the Overseas Headquarters Staff carried on
duties with responsibilities comparable with
those of an officer of higher rank than that
of Lieutenant, the pension to be awarded
under section 20 shall be that set forth in
Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
Captain (Army) or Captain (Canadian
Forces). R. S., c. 51, s. 21 ; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

## PART III

## CORPS OF (CIVILIAN) CANADIAN FIRE

## FIGHTERS FOR SERVICE IN THE

## UNITED KINGDOM
Rates of pension 22. Subject to this Part, pensions shall be
to Fire Fighters
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
members of the army forces of Canada or the
Canadian Forces, to or in respect of members
of the Corps of (Civilian) Canadian Fire
Fighters for Service in the United Kingdom
who suffered injury or disease or aggravation
thereof resulting in disability or death
attributable to or incurred during their service
as members of the said Corps in accordance
with the Pension Act. R.S., c. 51, s. 22; 1966-
67, c. 96, s. 64.
Rates of pension 23. The rate of pension to be awarded to
according rank to or in respect of a member of the Corps of
(Civilian) Canadian Fire Fighters for Service
in the United Kingdom shall be determined
according to the rank or rating of the army
forces of Canada or the Canadian Forces
assigned to such member s status by the
following table :

## TABLE
Status Rank or Rating
Commanding
Officer . ...Lieutenant-Colonel (Army),
Lieutenant-Colonel
(Canadian Forces)
Divisional Officer ...Major (Army),
Major (Canadian Forces)
Column Officer ..Captain (Army),
Captain (Canadian Forces)
Senior Company Officer
Company Officer
Section Leader,
Fireman, Lieutenant (Army),
Leading "
Senior Fireman, Lieutenant (Canadian Forces)
Fireman and
Junior Fireman
1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

## PART IV

## ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

**24.** (1) All claims for compensation under
section 5 of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police Pension Continuation Act shall be
referred to the Commission for consideration
and adjudication, and the Commission shall
assess the degree of disability in respect of
which compensation may be awarded under
the said section.
(2) Compensation shall be awarded at such
rate and in such manner as the Governor in
Council may from time to time prescribe
under section 5 of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police Pension Continuation Act.
(3) Where an assessment is made under this
section and subsequently the Commission re
assesses the degree of disability, the compen
sation shall be paid according to the rates
applicable at the time compensation was first
awarded. R.S., c. 51, s. 24.

## PART V

## ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

## SPECIAL CONSTABLES
Interpretation

**25.** In this Part "special constable" means
a person specially engaged and employed by
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police under
the authority of the Governor in Council for
the particular duty of mounting guard at
vulnerable points throughout Canada or for
any other similar duty during the War. R.S.,
c. 51, s. 25.
Pensions for Disability and Death

**26.** Subject to this Part, pensions shall be
awarded to or in respect of special constables
who during the War and as a direct result of
the performance of their duties as special
constables, suffered injury or disease or
aggravation thereof resulting in disability or
death. R.S., c. 51, s. 26.

**27.** The pension to be awarded under this
Part in respect of disability shall be awarded
at such rate and in such manner as the
Governor in Council may from time to time
prescribe under section 5 of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Pension Continuation
Act. R.S., c. 51, s. 27.

**28.** The pensions to be awarded under this
Part in respect of death shall be awarded in
accordance with section 45 of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Pension Continuation
Act and for the purposes of that section the
pay and allowances that would have been
permitted for pension purposes shall be the
actual pay and allowances of which the special
constable was in receipt at the time of his
death. R.S., c. 51, s. 28.

**29.** Where a special constable is in receipt
of a disability pension under the Pension Act,
the amount of pension payable under this
Part shall not at any time exceed the amount
by which the pension authorized by the
Pension Act for total disability exceeds the
pension of which he is in receipt under the
Pension Act. R.S., c. 51, s. 29.

**39.** No pension shall be awarded under
tn s P art ^ or an &amp;gt; disability in respect of which
a pension was awarded under the Pension Act.
R.S., c. 51,s.30.
3 \ t N pension shall be awarded under
^is Part to or in respect of a special constable
until he ceases to be a special constable. R.S.,
c. 51,s.31.

**32.** Unless it is established to the satisfac
tion of the Commission that the evidence
upon which the application for pension is
based was not in the possession of the
applicant or could not reasonably have been
obtained by such applicant within the times
hereinafter prescribed, no pension for death
shall be awarded under this Part in respect of
a special constable unless application is made
therefor within one year after his death, and
no pension for disability shall be awarded
under this Part to or in respect of a special
unless application is made therefor
one year after he ceased to be a special
R.S., c. 51, s. 32.

**33.** No pension for death shall be awarded
under this Part to or in respect of any
dependant other than the widow and children
of the special constable on account of whose
death pension is claimed. R.S., c. 51, s. 33.

## PART VI

## AIR RAID PRECAUTIONS WORKERS
Interpretation

**34.** In this Part
"air raid precautions worker" means a person
registered as a volunteer worker in a
designated area by an official body organ
ized for air raid precautions purposes, a
duly registered voluntary evacuation worker
or a person designated as such by the
Commission pursuant to section 45 ;
"designated area" means any area that has
been so designated by the Governor in
Council ;
"serious or prolonged disability" does not
include a disability of a degree less than
twenty per cent estimated in the manner
provided by subsection 26(2) of the Pension
Act;
"war service injury" means, in the case of an
air raid precautions worker other than a
duly registered voluntary evacuation work
er, any physical injury sustained during the
War and arising out of and in the course of
his duties as such as a direct result of enemy
action, or counter-action against the enemy
or action in apprehension of enemy attack
or during a blackout, test or period of
training duly authorized by the senior air
raid precautions officer in the designated
area in which such injury was sustained,
and, in the case of a duly, registered
voluntary evacuation worker, means injuries
arising out of and in the course of his duties
as an evacuation worker. R.S., c. 51, s. 34.
Pensions for Disability and Death

**35.** Subject to this Part, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules I and II in respect of serious or
disability or death caused by a war
injury. R.S., c. 51, s. 35.

**36.** No pension shall be awarded under
this Part in respect of a war service injury
sustained by reason of the wilful negligence
or improper conduct of the air raid precautions
worker by or in respect of whom pension is
claimed. R.S., c. 51, s. 36.

**37.** No pension in respect of a war service
injury shall be paid under this Part to or in
respect of any person in any period during
which such person receives or is entitled to
receive in respect of the same injury any
grant, allowance, compensation, pension or
other payment of a like nature, payable out
of any public funds to which such person has
not made a direct financial contribution,
unless such grant, allowance, compensation,
pension or other payment is less than the
amount of the pension that would otherwise
be payable under this Part, in which case
pension equal to the amount by which the
pension that would otherwise be payable
under this Part exceeds such other grant,
allowance, compensation, pension or other
payment, may be paid under this Part during
such period. R.S., c. 51, s. 37.

**38.** (1) No pension shall be awarded under
this Part to the widow of any person in respect
of the death of such person unless she was
wholly or to a substantial extent maintained
by him at the time of his death, and unless
she was married to him prior to the day the
war service injury in respect of which pension
is claimed was sustained.
(2) No additional pension shall be awarded
under this Part to any married man in respect
of his wife unless she was wholly or to a
substantial extent maintained by him immedi
ately prior to the day the war service injury
in respect of which such additional pension is
claimed was sustained. R.S., c. 51, s. 38.

**39.** The Commission may, in its discretion,
deduct from any additional pension payable
under this Part in respect of any dependant,
any amount payable by way of grant or
allowance, whether payable out of public
funds or otherwise, for the maintenance of
such dependant. R.S., c. 51, s. 39.

**40.** Where any two persons to whom any
pensions may be awarded under this Part are
married to one another, pensions may be paid
to them under this Part as if they were
unmarried, but in every such case the
additional pensions, if any, that may be
awarded under this Part in respect of any
dependent child or children shall be paid in
respect of the injury to the husband unless
the wife is not wholly or to a substantial
extent maintained by him, in which case such
additional pensions, if any, shall be paid in
respect of the injury to the parent who is
responsible for the support of such dependent
child or children. R.S., c. 51, s. 40.
4 1. No additional pension shall be awarded
under this Part in respect of any child born
more than nine months after the day the war
service injury in respect of which any pension
is payable was sustained. R.S., c. 51, s. 41.

**42.** Where a person to whom a pension
may be awarded under section 35 is a male
under the age of sixteen years or a female
under the age of seventeen years, no pension
shall be paid to such person until such person,
if a male, attains the age of sixteen years, or,
if a female, attains the age of seventeen years,
but the Commission may direct that, until
such age is attained, the pension shall be
administered for the benefit of such person in
the manner provided by section 17 of the
Pension Act. R.S., c. 51, s. 42.

**43.** No pension shall be awarded under
this Part in respect of any disability unless
application is made therefor within one year
after the day the war service injury resulting
in such disability was sustained, or in the case
of a male under the age of sixteen years or a
female under the age of seventeen years,
within one year after the respective ages are
attained, and no pension shall be awarded in
of death unless application is made
therefor within one year after the death. R.S.,
c. 51, s. 43.

**44.** Where the death of an air raid
precautions worker is attributable to war
service injury or where at the time of death
such worker was in receipt of a pension under
this Part, and where his estate has not
sufficient assets to pay the expenses of his
burial, the Commission may, if such worker
was not an in-patient under treatment in a
hospital operated by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, direct the payment of an
amount not exceeding one hundred dollars in
respect of such expenses. R.S., c. 51, s. 44.

**45.** The Commission may designate as an
air raid precautions worker any person who
as an employee in an essential service,
although unregistered as a volunteer worker,
assisted in air raid precautions work conse
quent upon enemy action, or counter-action
against the enemy or a duly authorized
blackout. R.S., c. 51, s. 45.

## PART VII

## INJURY DURING REMEDIAL

## TREATMENT

**45.** Pensions shall be awarded in accord
ance with the rates set forth in Schedules A
and B of the Pension Act for Lieutenant
(Army) or Lieutenant (Canadian Forces) to
or in respect of persons who
  * (_a_) were called up for training, service or
duty under The National Resources Mobili
zation Act, chapter 13 of the Statutes of
Canada, 1940,
  * (_b_) accepted and underwent treatment of
any kind prescribed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs for the purpose of improv
ing their physical condition and rendering
them fit for such training, service or duty,
and
  * (_c_) suffered injury or disease or aggravation
thereof resulting in disability or death
arising out of or directly connected with
such treatment. R.S., c. 51, s. 46 ; 1966-67, c.
96, s. 64.

**47.** Pensions shall be awarded in accord-
with the rates set forth in Schedules A
B of the Pension Act for Lieutenant
or Lieutenant (Canadian Forces) to
in respect of persons who
  * (_a_) volunteered for active service in the
naval, army or air forces of Canada but
were not accepted owing to their physical
condition,
(6) were furnished with remedial treatment
by the Department of Veterans Affairs,
under the conditions prescribed by the
Governor in Council, for the purpose of
rendering them fit for active service in the
said forces, and
  * (_c_) suffered injury or disease or aggravation
thereof resulting in disability or death
arising out of or directly connected with
such treatment. R.S., c. 51, s. 47 ; 1966-67, c.
96, s. 64.

## PART VIII

## VOLUNTARY AID DETACHMENT

**48.** In this Part
"member of the Voluntarv Aid Detachment"
means a member of the Nursing Auxiliary
Canadian Red Cross Corps or the Nursing
Division of the Saint John Ambulance
Brigade of Canada who, with the approval
of the Adjutant-General, served with the
Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps
during the War ;
"serious or prolonged disability" does not
include a disability of a degree less than
twenty per cent estimated in the manner
provided in subsection 26(2) of the Pension
Act;
"war service injury" means an injury arising
out of and in the course of duties as a
member of the Voluntary Aid Detachment.
R.S., c. 51,s.48.

**49.** Subject to this Part, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with Schedules I and
II in respect of serious or prolonged disability
or death caused by a war service injury. R.S.,
c. 51, s. 49.

**50.** No pension shall be awarded under
Part in respect of a war service injury
by reason of the wilful negligence
improper conduct of the member of the
Aid Detachment by or in respect
whom pension is claimed. R.S., c. 51, s. 50.
5 1. No pension in respect of a war service
injury shall be paid under this Part to or in
respect of any person during any period such
person receives or is entitled to receive in
respect of the same injury- any grant,
allowance, compensation, pension or other
payment of a like nature, payable out of any
public funds to which such person has not
made a direct financial contribution, unless
such grant, allowance, compensation, pension
or other payment is less than the amount of
the pension that would otherwise be payable
under this Part, in which case a pension equal
to the amount by which the pension that
would otherwise be payable under this Part,
exceeds such other grant, allowance, compen
sation, pension or other payment, may be
paid under this Part during such period. R.S.,
c. 51, s. 51.

**52.** Where the death of a member of the
Voluntary Aid Detachment is attributable to
war service injury or where at the time of
death such member was in receipt of a pension
under this Part, and where the estate has not
sufficient assets to pay the expenses of the
burial, the Commission may, if such member
was not an in-patient under treatment in a
hospital operated by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, direct the payment of an
amount not exceeding one hundred dollars in
respect of such expenses. R.S., c. 51, s. 52.

**53.** (1) No pension shall be awarded under
this Part in respect of disability unless
application was made therefor within one
year after the 31st day of August 1946.
(2) No pension shall be awarded under this
Part in respect of death unless application
was made therefor within one year after the
31st day of August 1946, or within one year
after the death, whichever is later. R.S., c. 51,
s. 53.

## PART IX

## OVERSEAS WELFARE WORKERS

**54.** In this Part
"enemy action or counter-action against the
enemy" includes extraordinary hazards
occasioned by the War ;
"Overseas Welfare Worker" means a person
who, under the auspices of the Canadian
Red Cross Society or the Saint John
Ambulance Brigade of Canada, proceeded
from Canada to serve as a welfare worker,
nursing aide, ambulance or transport driver,
member of the Overseas Headquarters Staff
or in any other capacity and includes
Orthopaedic Nurses selected by the Canadi
an Red Cross Society for service overseas
with the Scottish Ministry of Health ;
"service" means service during the War as an
Overseas Welfare Worker between the time
of embarkation for service outside of
Canada and the termination of such service
by the Canadian Red Cross Society, Saint
John Ambulance Brigade of Canada or the
Scottish Ministry of Health. R.S., c. 51, s.

**54.**

**55.** Subject to this Part, pensions shall be
awarded in accordance with the rates set forth
in Schedules A and B of the Pension Act for
Lieutenant (Army) or Lieutenant (Canadian
Forces) to or in respect of Overseas Welfare
Workers who, during service, suffered injury,
disease or aggravation thereof resulting in
disability or death when such injury, disease
or aggravation thereof resulting in disability
or death was a direct result of enemy action
or counter-action against the enemy. R.S., c.
51,s.55; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**56.** Where an Overseas Welfare Worker is
in receipt of a disability pension under the
Pension Act the amount of pension payable
under this Part, shall not exceed at any time
the amount by which the pension authorized
by the Pension Act for total disability exceeds
the pension of which that person is in receipt
the Pension Act. R.S., c. 51, s. 56.

**57.** Any pension awarded under this Part
in respect of disability or death shall be
reduced by the amount of any grant,
allowance, compensation, pension or other
payment of a like nature, payable in respect
of such disability or death out of funds to
which the Overseas Welfare Worker made no
direct contribution. R.S., c. 51, s. 57.

**58.** (1) No pension shall be awarded under
this Part in respect of disability unless
application was made therefor within one
year after the 31st day of August 1946.
(2) No pension shall be awarded under this
Part in respect of death unless application
was made therefor within one year after the
31st day of August 1946, or within one year
after the death, whichever is later. R.S., c. 51,
s. 58.

# PARTX

## CANADIAN CIVILIAN AIR CREW OF

## THE ROYAL AIR FORCE

## TRANSPORT COMMAND

**59.** In this Part
Civilian Member of Overseas Air Crew"
means a person, other than a member of
the forces, who was employed by the Air
Ministry of the United Kingdom to make
trans-Atlantic flights ferrying aircraft from
Canada, and who, at the commencement of
such employment, was domiciled in
Canada ;
enemy action or counter-action against the
enemy" includes extraordinary aerial or
other hazards occasioned by the War ;
service" means service during the War with
Number 45 Wing of the Royal Air Force
Transport Command, Number 45 Group of
the Royal Air Force Ferry Command, or
the Atlantic Ferrying Organization ("AT-
FERO"), between the date of engagement
for service outside of Canada and the
termination of such service by the Air
Minister of the United Kingdom. R.S., c.
51,s.59.
(). Where a Civilian Member of Overseas
Air Crew, during service and as a direct result
of enemy action or counter-action against the
enemy, incurred an injury or disease or
aggravation thereof resulting in serious disa
bility or death and he is in necessitous
circumstances, or, in the case of his death, his
widow, child or children, are in necessitous
circumstances, or, there being no widow or
children, his dependent parent or parents are
in necessitous circumstances, the Commission
may in its discretion award such pension, not
exceeding the rates payable under Schedule
A or B of the Pension Act for Lieutenant
(Army) or Lieutenant (Canadian Forces), as
it may from time to time deem to be adequate.
R.S., c. 51, s. 60; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**61.** Any award authorized under this Part
in respect of disability or death shall be
reduced by the amount of any grant,
allowance, compensation, pension or other
payment of a like nature, payable in respect
of such disability or death out of public funds
to which the Civilian Member of Overseas Air
Crew made no direct contribution. R.S., c. 51,
s. 61.

**62.** Whenever an application for pension
is made under this Part the Commission may,
before awarding the pension, require the
applicant to take all or any of such steps as
may be necessary to obtain payment of any
compensation that the applicant is entitled
to receive from any person or under the laws
of any province or country for the disability
or death in respect of which the application
for pension under this Part is made. R.S., c.
51,s.62.

**63.** No pension shall be awarded under
this Part in respect of disability unless
application was made therefor within one
year after the 31st day of August 1946. R.S.,
c. 51, s. 63.

## PART XI

## CIVILIAN ALLOWANCES
Interpretation

**64.** In this Part
"allowance" means an allowance payable
under this Part ;
"Board" means the War Veterans Allowance
Board established under the War Veterans
Allowance Act;
"child" means a child of a civilian and
includes a step-child, an adopted child or a
foster child of a civilian ;
"civilian" means civilian as defined by
subsection 75(1) ;
"District Authority" means a District Authori
ty established under the War Veterans
Allowance Act;
"Minister" means the Minister of Veterans
Affairs ;
"orphan" means
  * (_a_) a child who is bereft by death of his
parents,
(6) a child who is bereft by death of one
parent and whose surviving parent has, in
the opinion of a District Authority or the
Board, abandoned or deserted the child, or
  * (_c_) a child of unmarried parents who is
bereft by death of his father and whose
father was, at the time of his death, a
recipient of an allowance in respect of that
child ;
"parent" includes an adoptive or foster parent
or a step-parent ;
"recipient" means any person to whom or on
whose behalf payment of an allowance is
authorized by this Part ;
"widow" means a widow of a civilian and
"widower" means a civilian bereft by death
of his wife. 1962, c. 11, s. 3.
Allowances to Civilians, Widows and Orphans

**65.** (1) Subject to this Part, an allowance
age of sixty years,
  * (_b_) any female civilian or widow who has
attained the age of fifty-five years,
  * (_c_) any civilian or widow who, in the
opinion of a District Authority,
  * (_i_) is permanently unemployable because
of physical or mental disability, or
  * (_ii_) is, because of physical or mental
disability or insufficiency combined with
economic handicaps, incapable and
unlikely to become capable of maintain
ing himself or herself, and
  * (_of_) an orphan,
who is resident in Canada.
(2) The allowances payable under this
section to a civilian, widow or orphan shall
be paid at the lesser of the following rates,
namely,
  * (_a_) the monthly rate specified for a veteran,
widow or orphan in Column II of the
schedule to the War Veterans Allowance
Act; or
  * (_b_) the monthly rate that will produce the
total income, including allowances, speci
fied for a veteran, widow or orphan in
Column III of the schedule to the War
Veterans Allowance Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the
allowance payable under this section to a
civilian, widow or orphan may be paid to that
civilian, widow or orphan who absents himself
from Canada after the 22nd day of February
1962 if, on the day he leaves Canada, he
  * (_a_) is a recipient of an allowance under this
section, and
  * (_b_) had been resident in Canada for the
twelve months immediately preceding that
day.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in this sec-
tion the allowance payable under this section
to a widow or orphan may be paid to
  * (_a_) the widow of a recipient who dies
outside of Canada if that widow resides
outside of Canada and
  * (_i_) left Canada with that recipient or
within a period of three months of the
day on which that recipient left Canada,
  * (_ii_) had been resident in Canada for
twelve months immediately preceding the
day she left Canada, and
  * (_iii_) was living with and being maintained
by that recipient at the time of his death,
and
(6) an orphan of a recipient who dies
outside of Canada if that orphan resides
outside of Canada and
  * (_i_) left Canada with that recipient or
within a period of three months of the
day on which that recipient left Canada,
or
  * (_ii_) was born outside of Canada to that
recipient and his spouse, both of whom
left Canada at the same time or within a
period of three months of one another.
1962, c. ll.s.3.
Limitations

**66.** No allowance is payable under this
Part unless an application therefor has been
made in accordance with this Part and the
regulations made hereunder and the allowance
has been awarded. 1962, c. 11, s. 3.

**67.** No allowance shall be paid under this
Part to a person who is the recipient of an
allowance under the War Veterans Allowance
Act. 1962, c. ll,s. 3.

**68.** No allowance shall be paid to any
person who in World War II served
  * (_a_) in enemy forces,
(6) in an enemy ship, or
  * (_c_) in war service groups associated with
forces of the enemy. 1962, c. 11, s. 3.
War Veterans Allowance Act

**69.** All applications for allowances under
this Part shall be dealt with and adjudicated
in the same manner as applications for
under the War Veterans Allowance
1962, c. ll,s.3.

**70.** (1) Subsection 2(3), sections 4, 6, 8, 10
the schedule to that Act apply mutatis
mutandis in respect of any allowance payable
under this Part.
(2) In applying any of the provisions of the
War Veterans Allowance Act and the schedule
thereto for the purposes of this Part, the word
"veteran" where it appears therein shall be
read as "civilian". 1962, c. 11, s. 3.
General

**71.** Except as to the power, authority and
jurisdiction to deal with and adjudicate upon
applications for allowances under this Part,
the Minister shall be charged with the
administration of this Part. 1962, c. 11, s. 3.

**72.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying into effect the
purposes and provisions of this Part and may,
without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, for purposes of this Part, make
regulations prescribing and determining any
thing that may be prescribed or determined
for the purposes of the War Veterans Allowance
Act. 1962, c. ll.s. 3.

**73.** Every department of Government shall
furnish the Board or a District Authority with
such information and material as the Board
or a District Authority may from time to time
require for the purpose of considering applica
tions for allowances under this Part. 1962, c.

**74.** It is the responsibility of the person
who makes application for an allowance under
this Part to provide the Board or a District
Authority with proof of the service during
World War I or World War II as the result of
which that person claims to be entitled to an
allowance under this Part. 1962, c. 11, s. 3.

**75.** (1) For the purposes of this Part
a person who
  * (_i_) served at sea in a ship of Canadian or
Newfoundland registry during World War
I or World War II for a period of at least
six months, and
  * (_ii_) during the period of service referred
to in subparagraph (i) made at least one
trip through dangerous waters ;
  * (_b_) a Canadian citizen, a Canadian national
as defined in the Canadian Nationals Act,
chapter 21 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1927, or a British subject domiciled
in Newfoundland at the commencement of
his qualifying service who
  * (_i_) served at sea during World War I or
World War II for a period of at least six
months in a ship of United Kingdom
registry or the registry of one of the
countries allied or associated with His
Majesty in either of the said wars, and
  * (_ii_) during the period of service referred
to in subparagraph (i) made at least one
trip through dangerous waters ;
  * (_c_) a person who was a member of the Corps
of (Civilian) Canadian Fire Fighters for
Service in the United Kingdom who served
in the United Kingdom during World War
II for a continuous period of at least six
months;
  * (_d_) a Canadian citizen, a Canadian national
as defined in the Canadian Nationals Act,
chapter 21 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1927, or a British subject domiciled
in Newfoundland at the commencement of
his qualifying service who served during
World War I as a member of the Voluntary
Aid Detachment of the British Red Cross
  * (_i_) on the continent of Europe, or
  * (_ii_) in the United Kingdom for a period
of at least three hundred and sixty-five
days prior to the 12th day of November
1918;
  * (_e_) a person who during World War II
  * (_i_) under the auspices of the Canadian
Red Cross Society or the St. John
Ambulance Brigade of Canada served
overseas for a continuous period of at
least six months as a welfare worker,
nursing aid, ambulance or transport
driver, member of Overseas Headquarters
Staff, or in any other capacity, or
  * (_ii_) was selected by the Canadian Red
Cross Society for service overseas and
served with the Scottish Ministry of
Health as an orthopaedic nurse for a
continuous period of at least six months;
(/) a person who
  * (_i_) served during World War II for a
continuous period of at least six months
with Number 45 Wing of the Royal Air
Force Transport Command, Number 45
Group of the Royal Air Force Ferry
Command or the Atlantic Ferrying
Organization as an Air Crew member,
  * (_ii_) during the period of service referred
to in subparagraph (i) made at least one
trans-oceanic flight, and
  * (_iii_) was domiciled in Canada or New
foundland at the commencement of the
said service ;
  * (_g_) a person who served in the United
Kingdom with the Newfoundland Overseas
Forestry Unit during World War II
  * (_i_) for a period of more than six months,
or
  * (_ii_) for any period, if the service was
terminated on medical grounds ; and
  * (_h_) a person who is in receipt of a pension
under Parts I to X, or is declared to have
been eligible for, or awarded, such a pension
subsequent to his death.
(2) For the purposes of this section
"dangerous waters" means such oceans, seas
or waters as the Board may prescribe ;
"service at sea" means service in a ship which
normally sailed or operated outside the
territorial waters of all countries during
World War I or World War II, as the case
may be ;
"ship" means
  * (_a_) a ship or vessel engaged in trade or the
transportation of cargo or passengers, or
(6) a ship or vessel taken over and operated
by the British Admiralty
but does not include a ship or vessel
engaged in the fishing industry.
(3) p or the purposes of this section
  * (_a_) World War I shall be deemed to have
commenced on the 4th day of August 1914
and to have concluded on the llth day of
November 1918 ; and
  * (_b_) World War II shall be deemed to have
commenced on the 1st day of September
1939 and to have terminated
  * (_i_) in respect of service in connection with
operations in the European and Mediter
ranean theatres of war, on the 8th day of
May 1945, and
  * (_ii_) in respect of service in connection
with operations in the Pacific theatre of
war, on the 15th day of August 1945.
(4) In calculating the period that a person
served overseas for the purpose of paragraph
(l)(c),(cf) or (e), the travelling of the person
from the date of his embarkation for the
United Kingdom until arrival in that country
and from the date of embarkation from the
United Kingdom for Canada or Newfound
land until arrival in Canada or Newfoundland
shall be considered as overseas service.
(5) In calculating the period that a person
served at sea for the purpose of paragraph (1)
  * (_a_) or (6), time spent by the person as a
prisoner of war or as an internee shall be
considered as service at sea. 1962, c. 11, s. 3;
1967-68, c. 8, Sch. B vote 17a.
