
# CHAPTER C-22
An Act to encourage the establishment of and
to regulate cold storage warehouses for
the preservation of perishable food prod
ucts

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Cold
Storage Act. R.S., c. 52, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Agriculture. R.S., c. 52, s. 2.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF COLD STORAGE

## WAREHOUSES

**3.** The Governor in Council may enter into
contracts with any persons for the construction,
equipment and maintenance in good and
efficient working order, of public cold storage
warehouses equipped with mechanical refrig
eration, in Canada, and suitable for the
preservation of any food product. R.S., c. 52,
s. 3.

**4.** The location, plans and specification of
every such warehouse, its equipment, and the
amount to be expended thereon, shall be
subject to the approval of the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 52, s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may, out of
any money appropriated by Parliament for
the purpose, grant toward the construction
and equipment of a warehouse in respect of
which a contract has been entered into
pursuant to section 3 a subsidy not exceeding
thirty-three and one-third per cent of the
amount expended or approved of in such
construction and equipment, payable upon
the completion of the warehouse to the
satisfaction of the Minister and the provision
therein of cold storage that, in the opinion of
the Minister, is suitable for the preservation
of perishable foods and food products. R.S.,
c. 313, s. 1.

**5.** The Minister may order, and cause to
be maintained, an inspection and supervision
of the sanitary conditions, maintenance and
operation of such warehouses, and may
regulate and control the temperatures to be
maintained therein in accordance with the
regulations. R.S., c. 52, s. 7.

**7.** The rates and tolls to be charged for
storage in such warehouses are subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council. R.S., c.
52, s. 8.
g. Inspectors, who shall have access to all
parts of such warehouses at all times, may be
appointed, in the manner authorized by law,
for the effective carrying out of the provisions
of this Act. R.S., c. 52, s. 9.

**9.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations as he considers necessary in
order to secure the efficient enforcement and
operation of this Act ; and he may by such
regulations impose penalties not exceeding
fifty dollars on any person offending against
them. R.S.,c. 52, s. 10.
