
# CHAPTER C-23
Act to provide for the investigation of
combines, monopolies, trusts and mergers

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Combines
Investigation Act. R.S., c. 314, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"article" means an article or commodity that
may be the subject of trade or commerce ;
"business" means the business of manufactur
ing, producing, transporting, purchasing,
supplying, selling, storing or dealing in
articles ;
"Commission" means the Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission appointed under this
Act;
"corporation" includes "company";
"Director" means the Director of Investigation
and Research appointed under this Act ;
"merger" means the acquisition by one or
more persons, whether by purchase or lease
of shares or assets or otherwise, of any
control over or interest in the whole or part
of the business of a competitor, supplier,
customer or any other person, whereby
competition
  * (_a_) in a trade or industry,
  * (_b_) among the sources of supply of a trade
or industry,
  * (_c_) among the outlets for sales of a trade or
industry, or
  * (_d_) otherwise than in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c),
is or is likely to be lessened to the detriment
or against the interest of the public, whether
consumers, producers or others ;
means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs ;
"monopoly" means a situation where one or
more persons either substantially or com
pletely control throughout Canada or any
area thereof the class or species of business
in which they are engaged and have
operated such business or are likely to
operate it to the detriment or against the
interest of the public, whether consumers,
producers or others, but a situation shall
not be deemed a monopoly within the
meaning of this definition by reason only
of the exercise of any right or enjoyment of
any interest derived under the Patent Act,
or any other Act of the Parliament of
Canada ;
"trade or industry" includes any class, division
or branch of a trade or industry. R.S., c.
314, s. 2 ; 1960, c. 45, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s.
38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.

**3.** No proceedings under this Act shall be
deemed invalid by reason of any defect of
form or any technical irregularity. R.S., c.
314, s. 3.

**4.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to apply to combinations of workmen or
employees for their own reasonable protection
as such workmen or employees. R.S., c. 314, s.

**4.**

## PARTI

## INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

**5.** (i) T ne Governor in Council may
appoint an officer to be known as the Director
of Investigation and Research.
(2) The Director shall, before entering upon
his duties, take and subscribe, before the Clerk
of the Privy Council, an oath, which shall be
filed in the office of the Clerk, in the following
form:
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully, truly and
impartially, and to the best of my judgment, skill and
ability, execute the powers and trusts reposed in me as
Director of Investigation and Research. So help me God.
(3) The Director shall be paid such salary
as may be from time to time fixed and
allowed by the Governor in Council. R.S., c.
314, s. 5.

**6.** (1) One or more persons may be appoint
ed Deputy Directors of Investigation and
Research, in the manner authorized by law.
(2) The Governor in Council may authorize
a Deputy Director to exercise the powers and
perform the duties of the Director whenever
the Director is absent or unable to act or
whenever there is a vacancy in the office of
Director.
(3) The Governor in Council may authorize
any person to exercise the powers and perform
the duties of the Director whenever the
Director and the Deputy Directors are absent
or unable to act or, if one or more of those
offices are vacant, whenever the holders of
the other of such offices are absent or unable
to act.
(4) The Director may authorize a Deputy
Director to make inquiry regarding any matter
into which the Director has power to inquire,
and when so authorized a Deputy Director
shall perform the duties and may exercise the
powers of the Director in respect of such
matter.
(5) The exercise, pursuant to this Act, of
any of the powers or duties of the Director by
a Deputy Director or other person does not in
any way limit, restrict or qualify the powers
or duties of the Director, either generally or
with respect to any particular matter. R.S., c.
314, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Any six persons, Canadian citizens,
resident in Canada, of the full age of twenty-
one years, who are of the opinion that an
offence under Part V has been or is about to
be committed may apply to the Director for
an inquiry into such matter.
(2) The application shall be accompanied
by a statement in the form of a solemn or
statutory declaration showing
  * (_a_) the names and addresses of the appli-
Act, have authorized to represent them;
(6) the nature of the alleged offence and
the names of the persons believed to be
concerned therein and privy thereto ; and
  * (_c_) a concise statement of the evidence
supporting their opinion that the offence
has been or is about to be committed. 1960,
c. 45, s. 2.

**8.** The Director shall
  * (_a_) on application made under section 7,
(6) whenever he has reason to believe that
any provision in Part V has been or is about
to be violated, or
  * (_c_) whenever he is directed by the Minister
to inquire whether any provision in Part V
has been or is about to be violated,
cause an inquiry to be made into all such
matters as he considers necessary to inquire
into with the view of determining the facts.
R.S., c. 314,8. 8; 1960, c. 45, s. 3.

**9.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Director
may at any time in the course of an inquiry,
by notice in writing, require any person, and
in the case of a corporation any officer of the
corporation, to make and deliver to the
Director, within a time stated in such notice,
or from time to time, a written return under
oath or affirmation showing in detail such
information with respect to the business of
the person named in the notice as is by the
notice required, and such person or officer
shall make and deliver to the Director,
precisely as required a written return under
oath or affirmation showing in detail the
information required ; and, without restricting
the generality of the foregoing, the Director
may require a full disclosure and production
of all contracts or agreements which the
person named in the notice may have at any
time entered into with any other person,
touching or concerning the business of the
person named in the notice.
(2) The Director shall not issue a notice
application of the Director, a member of the
Commission certifies, as such member may,
that such notice may be issued to the person
or officer of a corporation disclosed in the
application. R.S., c. 314, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Subject to subsection (3), in any
inquiry under this Act the Director or any
representative authorized by him may enter
any premises on which the Director believes
there may be evidence relevant to the matters
being inquired into and may examine any
thing on the premises and may copy or take
away for further examination or copying any
book, paper, record or other document that in
the opinion of the Director or his authorized
representative, as the case may be, may afford
such evidence.
(2) Every person who is in possession or
control of any premises or things mentioned
in subsection (1) shall permit the Director or
his authorized representative to enter the
premises, to examine any thing on the
premises and to copy or take away any
document on the premises.
(3) Before exercising the power conferred
by subsection (1), the Director or his represent
ative shall produce a certificate from a
member of the Commission, which may be
granted on the ex parte application of the
Director, authorizing the exercise of such
power.
(4) Where any document is taken away
under this section for examination or copying,
the original or a copy thereof shall be
delivered to the custody from which the
original came within forty days after it is
taken away or within such later time as may
be directed by the Commission for cause or
agreed to by the person from whom it was
obtained.
(5) When the Director or his authorized
representative acting under this section is
refused admission or access to premises or any
thing thereon or when the Director has
reasonable grounds for believing that such
admission or access will be refused, a judge of
steps as to the judge seem necessary to
the Director or his authorized represent
such admission or access. R.S., c. 314, s.

**10.**

**11.** (1) All books, papers, records or other
documents obtained or received by the
Director may be inspected by him and also
by such persons as he directs.
(2) The Director may have copies made
(including copies by any process of photo
graphic reproduction) of any books, papers,
records or other documents referred to in
subsection (1), and such copies, upon proof
orally or by affidavit that they are true
copies, in any proceedings under this Act are
admissible in evidence and have the same
probative force as the originals ; where such
evidence is offered by affidavit it is not
necessary to prove the signature or official
character of the deponent if that information
is set forth in the affidavit or to prove the
signature or official character of the person
before whom such affidavit was sworn. R.S.,
c. 314, s. 11; 1960, c. 45, s. 4.

**12.** (1) The Director may, by notice in
writing, require evidence upon affidavit or
written affirmation, in every case in which it
seems to him proper to do so, but the Director
shall not so require unless, on the ex parte
application of the Director, a member of the
Commission certifies, as such member may,
that the Director may make such a requirement
to the person disclosed in the application.
(2) The following persons, namely,
  * (_a_) each member of the Commission,
(6) the Director,
  * (_c_) a Deputy Director or other person
exercising the powers of the Director under
this Act,
  * (_d_) any person employed under this Act
when so authorized by the Chairman of the
Commission, and
  * (_e_) all persons authorized to administer
oaths in or concerning any proceedings had
or to be had in the Supreme Court of
Canada, the Exchequer Court of Canada
or any of the superior courts of any
province,
may administer oaths to be used for the
purposes of this Act. R.S., c. 314, s. 12.

**13.** Whenever in the opinion of the
Commission or the Director the public interest
so requires, the Commission or the Director
may apply to the Attorney General of Canada
to appoint and instruct counsel to assist in an
inquiry and upon such application the
Attorney General of Canada may appoint
and instruct counsel accordingly. 1960, c. 45,
s. 5 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**14.** (1) At any stage of the inquiry, if the
Director is of the opinion that the matter
being inquired into does not justify further
inquiry, the Director may discontinue the
inquiry, but an inquiry shall not be discon
tinued without the written concurrence of the
Commission in any case in which evidence
has been brought before the Commission.
(2) The Director shall thereupon make a
report in writing to the Minister showing the
information obtained and the reason for
discontinuing the inquiry.
(3) In any case where an inquiry made on
application under section 7 is discontinued,
the Director shall inform the applicant of the
decision giving the grounds therefor.
(4) On written request of the applicants or
on his own motion, the Minister may review
the decision to discontinue the inquiry, and
may, if in his opinion the circumstances
warrant, instruct the Director to make further
inquiry. R.S., c. 314, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Director may, at any stage of
an inquiry, and in addition to or in lieu of
continuing the inquiry, remit any records,
returns or evidence to the Attorney General
of Canada for consideration as to whether an
offence has been or is about to be committed
against this Act, and for such action as the
Attorney General of Canada may be pleased
to take.
(2) The Attorney General of Canada may
institute and conduct any prosecution or other
proceedings under this Act, and for such
purposes he may exercise all the powers and
functions conferred by the Criminal Code on
attorney general of a province. R.S., c.
s. 15; 1960, c. 45, s. 6.

## PART II

## CONSIDERATION AND REPORT

**16.** (1) There shall be a Commission to be
known as the Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission consisting of not more than three
members appointed by the Governor in
Council.
(2) One of the members shall be appointed
by the Governor in Council to be Chairman
of the Commission ; the Chairman is the chief
executive officer of the Commission and has
supervision over and direction of the work of
the Commission.
(3) Each member holds office during good
behaviour for a period of ten years from the
date of his appointment.
(4) A member on the expiration of his term
of office is eligible for re-appointment.
(5) Each member shall be paid such salary
as may be from time to time fixed and
allowed by the Governor in Council.
(6) When any member by reason of any
temporary incapacity is unable to perform
the duties of his office, the Governor in
Council may appoint a temporary substitute
member, upon such terms and conditions as
the Governor in Council may prescribe.
(7) A vacancy in the Commission does not
impair the right of the remaining members to
act.
(8) Where there is no vacancy in the
Commission, or only one vacancy, two
members constitute a quorum, and where
there are two vacancies, the member holding
office may exercise and perform all the
powers, duties and functions of the Commis
sion under this Act.
(9) The Commission may make rules for
the regulation of its proceedings and the
performance of its duties and functions under
Act, including the delegation to a single
of all the powers of the Commission
the power to report to the Minister.
(10) Each member shall, before entering
upon his duties, take and subscribe, before
the Clerk of the Privy Council, an oath, which
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk, in the
following form :
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully, truly and
impartially, and to the best of my judgment, skill and
ability, execute the powers and trusts reposed in me as a
member of the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission. So
help me God.
The office of the Commission shall be
in the city of Ottawa in the Province of
Ontario, but sittings of the Commission may
be held at such other places as the Commission
may decide. R.S., c. 314, s. 16.

**17.** (1) On ex parte application of the
Director, or on his own motion, a member of
the Commission may order that any person
resident or present in Canada be examined
upon oath before, or make production of
books, papers, records or other documents to
such member or before or to any other person
named for the purpose by the order of such
member and may make such orders as seem
to him to be proper for securing the attendance
of such witness and his examination, and the
production by him of books, papers, records
or other documents and may otherwise
exercise, for the enforcement of such orders or
punishment for disobedience thereof, all
powers that are exercised by any superior
court in Canada for the enforcement of
subpoenas to witnesses or punishment of
disobedience thereof.
(2) Any person summoned under subsection
(1) is competent and may be compelled tri to
give evidence as a witness.
(3^ A member of the Commission shall not
exercise power to penalize any person pursuant
to this Act, whether for contempt or otherwise,
unless, on the application of the member, a
judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada or
of a superior or county court has certified, as
such judge may, that the power may be
exercised in the matter disclosed in the
application, and the member has given to
such person twenty-four hours notice of the
hearing of the application or such shorter
notice as the judge deems reasonable.
(4) Any books, papers, records, or other
produced voluntarily or in pursu
of an order under subsection (1) shall
thirty days thereafter be delivered to
the Director, who is thereafter responsible for
their custody, and within sixty days after the
receipt of such books, papers, records or other
documents by him the Director shall deliver
the original or a copy thereof to the person
from whom such books, papers, records or
other documents were received.
(5) A justice before whom any thing seized
pursuant to a search warrant issued with
reference to an offence against this Act is
brought may, on the application of the
Director, order that such thing be delivered
to the Director, and the Director shall deal
with any thing so delivered to him as if
delivery of it had been made to him pursuant
to subsection (4).
(6) Every person summoned to attend
pursuant to this section is entitled to the like
fees and allowances for so doing as if
summoned to attend before a superior court
of the province in which he is summoned to
attend.
(7) The Minister may issue commissions to
take evidence in another country, and may
make all proper orders for the purpose and
for the return and use of evidence so obtained.
(8) Orders to witnesses issued pursuant to
this section shall be signed by a member of
the Commission. R.S., c. 314, s. 17; 1960, c.
45, s. 7.

**18.** (1) At any stage of an inquiry,
  * (_a_) the Director may, if he is of the opinion
that the evidence obtained discloses a
situation contrary to any provision in Part
V, and
  * (_b_) the Director shall, if so required by the
Minister,
prepare a statement of the evidence obtained
in the inquiry which shall be submitted to the
Commission and to each person against whom
an allegation is made therein.
(2) Upon receipt of the statement referred
to in subsection (1), the Commission shall fix
a place, time and date at which argument in
of such statement be submitted
persons against whom an allegation has
been made in such statement shall be allowed
full opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel.
(3) The Commission shall, in accordance
with this Act , consider the statement submitted
by the Director under subsection (1) together
with such further or other evidence or material
as the Commission considers advisable.
(4) No report shall be made by the
Commission under section 19 or 22 against
any person unless such person has been
allowed full opportunity to be heard as
provided in subsection (2). R.S., c. 314, s. 18;
1953-54, c. 51, s. 750 ; 1960, c. 45, s. 8.

**19.** (1) The Commission shall, as soon as
possible after the conclusion of proceedings
taken under section 18, make a report in
writing and without delay transmit it to the
Minister.
(2) The report under subsection (1) shall
review the evidence and material, appraise
the effect on the public interest of arrange
ments and practices disclosed in the evidence
and contain recommendations as to the
application of remedies provided in this Act
or other remedies.
(3) Where it appears from proceedings taken
under section 18 that a conspiracy, combina
tion, agreement or arrangement has existed,
the report under subsection (1) of this section
shall include a finding whether or not the
conspiracy, combination, agreement or
arrangement relates only to one or more of
the matters specified in subsection 32(2) and,
if so, shall include a finding whether or not
the conspiracy, combination, agreement or
arrangement, has lessened or is likely to lessen
competition unduly in respect of one of the
matters specified in paragraphs 32(3)(a) to (d),
or has restricted or is likely to restrict any
person from entering into or expanding a
business in a trade or industry.
(4) Within thirty days following the trans
mission of such report to the Minister, the
shall cause to be delivered into the
from which they came, if not already
so delivered, all books, papers, records and
documents in his possession as evidence
relating to the inquiry, unless the Attorney
General of Canada certifies that all or any of
such documents shall be retained by the
Director for purposes of prosecution.
(5) Any report of the Commission shall
within thirty days after its receipt by the
Minister be made public, unless the Commis
sion states in writing to the Minister it
believes the public interest would be better
served by withholding publication, in which
case the Minister may decide whether the
report, either in whole or in part, shall be
made public.
(6) The Minister may publish and supply
copies of a report referred to in subsection (5)
in such manner and upon such terms as he
deems proper. R.S., c. 314, s. 19; 1960, c. 45, s.

**9.**

**20.** (1) A member of the Commission may
allow any person whose conduct is being
inquired into and shall permit any person
who is being himself examined under oath to
be represented by counsel.
(2) No person shall be excused from attend
ing and giving evidence and producing books,
papers, records or other documents, in obedi
ence to the order of a member of the
Commission, on the ground that the oral
evidence or documents required of him may
tend to criminate him or subject him to any
proceeding or penalty, but no oral evidence
so required shall be used or receivable against
such person in any criminal proceedings
thereafter instituted against him, other than
a prosecution for perjury in giving such
evidence. R.S., c. 314, s. 20.
2 1. The Commission or any member there
of has all the powers of a commissioner
appointed under Part I of the Inquiries Act.
R.S., c. 314, s. 21.

**22.** (1) Notwithstanding subsections 19(1)
and (2), when, in any inquiry relating to
alleged situations contrary to section 32 or 33,
the Commission, after reviewing the statement
submitted by the Director and receiving
argument in support thereof and in reply
thereto, is then unable effectively to appraise
the effect on the public interest of the
arrangements and practices disclosed in the
evidence, it shall make an interim report in
writing, which shall contain a review of the
evidence and a statement of the reasons why
the Commission is unable to appraise effec
tively the effect of such arrangements and
practices on the public interest, and without
delay, such report shall be transmitted to the
Minister.
(2) In any case where an interim report is
made pursuant to subsection (1), the Commis
sion has authority at any time thereafter
until a final report as hereinafter provided is
made
  * (_a_) to exercise the powers conferred on a
member by section 17,
  * (_b_) to require the Director to make further
inquiry, and for such purpose the Director
may exercise all the powers conferred on
him by this Act with respect to an inquiry
under section 8,
  * (_c_) to require the Director to submit to the
Commission copies of any books, papers,
records or other documents obtained in such
further inquiry, and
  * (_d_) to require by notice in writing any
person and in the case of a corporation, any
officer of the corporation, to make and
deliver to the Commission, within a time
stated in such notice, or from time to time,
a written return under oath or affirmation
showing in detail such information with
respect to the business of the person named
in the notice as is by the notice required,
and such person or officer shall make and
deliver to the Commission, precisely as
required a written return under oath or
affirmation showing in detail the informa
tion required; and, without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, the Commission
may require a full disclosure and production
of all contracts or agreements which the
person, named in the notice, may have at
any time entered into with any other
person, touching or concerning the business
of the person so named in the notice.
(3) When the Commission has obtained
such further information as it deems necessary
to appraise effectively the effect on the public
applies to such report and to all books, papers,
records or other documents obtained in the
investigation and subsequent inquiry upon
which such report is based.
(4) Until the final report is made, the
Commission shall, after making an interim
report as provided in subsection (1), as soon
as possible after the 31st day of March in
each year and in any event within three
months thereof submit to the Minister an
annual report setting out any further action
taken and evidence obtained since such
interim report was submitted.
(5) Subsections 19(5) and (6) apply to an
interim report and an annual report made
pursuant to this section. R.S., c. 314, s. 22;
1960, c. 45, s. 10.

## PART III

## GENERAL

**23.** All officers, clerks and employees
required for carrying out this Act shall be
appointed in accordance with the Public
Service Employment Act, except that the
Director or the Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, employ
such temporary, technical and special assist
ants as may be required to meet the special
conditions that may arise in carrying out this
Act. R.S., c. 314, s. 24.

**24.** (1) Any temporary, technical and spe
cial assistants employed by the Director or
the Commission shall be paid for their services
and expenses as may be determined by the
Governor in Council.
(2) The remuneration and expenses of the
Director and of each member of the Commis
sion and of the temporary, technical and
special assistants employed by the Director or
Commission, and of any counsel instructed
this Act, shall be paid out of money
appropriated by Parliament to defray the
Service Employment Act and other Acts relating
to the Public Service, in so far as applicable,
apply to each member of the Commission, to
the Director and to all other persons employed
under this Act. R.S., c. 314, s. 25; 1966-67, c.
25, s. 45.

**25.** Any technical or special assistant or
otner person employed under this Act, when
so authorized or deputed by the Director, has
power and authority to exercise any of the
powers and duties of the Director under this
Act with respect to any particular inquiry, as
may be directed by the Director. R.S., c. 314,
s. 26.

**26.** The Minister may at any time require
the Director to submit an interim report with
respect to any inquiry by him under this Act,
and it is the duty of the Director whenever
thereunto required by the Minister to render
an interim report setting out the action taken,
the evidence obtained and the Director s
opinion as to the effect of the evidence. R.S.,
c. 314, s. 27.

**27.** All inquiries under this Act shall be
conducted in private, except that the Chair
man of the Commission may order that all or
any portion of any proceedings before the
Commission or any member thereof be
conducted in public. R.S., c. 314, s. 28.

## PART IV

## SPECIAL REMEDIES

**28.** Whenever, from or as a result of an
inquiry under this Act, or from or as a result
of a judgment of the Supreme Court or
Exchequer Court of Canada or of any
superior, district or county court in Canada,
it appears to the satisfaction of the Governor
in Council that with regard to any article
there has existed any conspiracy, combination,
agreement, arrangement, merger or monopoly
to promote unduly the advantage of manu
facturers or dealers at the expense of the
and if it appears to the Governor in
that such disadvantage to the public
presently being facilitated by the duties of
imposed on the article, or on any like
article, the Governor in Council may direct
either that such article be admitted into
Canada free of duty, or that the duty thereon
be reduced to such amount or rate as will, in
the opinion of the Governor in Council, give
the public the benefit of reasonable competi
tion. 1960, c. 45, s. 11.

**29.** In any case where use has been made
^ * ne exclusive rights and privileges conferred
by one or more patents for invention or by
one or more trade marks so as
  * (_a_) to limit unduly the facilities for trans
porting, producing, manufacturing, supply
ing, storing or dealing in any article or
commodity which may be a subject of trade
or commerce, or
(6) to restrain or injure, unduly, trade or
commerce in relation to any such article or
commodity, or
  * (_c_) to prevent, limit or lessen, unduly, the
manufacture or production of any such
article or commodity or unreasonably to
enhance the price thereof, or
  * (_d_) to prevent or lessen, unduly, competition
in the production, manufacture, purchase,
barter, sale, transportation or supply of any
such article or commodity,
the Exchequer Court of Canada, on an
information exhibited by the Attorney Gen
eral of Canada, may for the purpose of
preventing any use in the manner defined
above of the exclusive rights and privileges
conferred by any patents or trade marks
relating to or affecting the manufacture, use
or sale of such article or commodity, make
one or more of the following orders :
  * (_e_) declaring void, in whole or in part, any
agreement, arrangement or licence relating
to such use ;
  * (_f_) restraining any person from carrying out
or exercising any or all of the terms or
provisions of such agreement, arrangement
or licence ;
  * (_g_) directing the grant of licences under
such patent ;
  * (_h_) directing that the registration of a trade
mark in the register of trade marks be
expunged or amended; and
  * (_z_) directing that such other acts be done or
omitted as the Court may deem necessary
to prevent any such use ;
but no order shall be made under this section
that is at variance with any treaty, convention,
arrangement or engagement with any other
country respecting patents or trade marks to
which Canada is a party. R.S., c. 314, s. 30.

**30.** (1) Where a person has been convicted
of an offence under Part V
  * (_a_) the court may at the time of such
conviction, on the application of the
Attorney General of Canada or the attorney
general of the province, or
(6) a superior court of criminal jurisdiction
in the province may at any time within
three years thereafter, upon proceedings
commenced by information of the Attorney
General of Canada or the attorney general
of the province for the purposes of this
section,
and in addition to any other penalty imposed
on the person convicted, prohibit the con
tinuation or repetition of the offence or the
doing of any act or thing by the person
convicted or any other person directed toward
the continuation or repetition of the offence
and where the conviction is with respect to a
merger or monopoly, direct the person
convicted or any other person to do such acts
or things as may be necessary to dissolve the
merger or monopoly in such manner as the
court directs.
(2) Where it appears to a superior court of
criminal jurisdiction in proceedings com
menced by information of the Attorney
General of Canada or the attorney general of
the province for the purposes of this section
a person has done, is about to do or is
likely to do any act or thing constituting or
directed toward the commission of an offence
under Part V, the court may prohibit the
commission of the offence or the doing or
continuation of any act or thing by that
person or any other person constituting or
directed toward the commission of such an
offence, and, where the offence is with respect
to a merger or monopoly, direct that person
or any other person to do such acts or things
as may be necessary to dissolve the merger or
monopoly in such manner as the court directs.
(3) The Attorney General or any person
against whom an order of prohibition or
dissolution is made may appeal against the
order or a refusal to make an order or the
quashing of an order
  * (_a_) from a superior court of criminal
jurisdiction in the province to the court of
appeal of the province, or
(6) from the court of appeal of the province
or the Exchequer Court of Canada to the
Supreme Court of Canada
as the case may be, upon any ground that
involves a question of law or, if leave to
appeal is granted by the court appealed to
within twenty-one days after the judgment
appealed from is pronounced or within such
extended time as the court appealed to or a
judge thereof for special reasons allows, on
any ground that appears to that court to be a
sufficient ground of appeal.
(4) Where the court of appeal or the
Supreme Court of Canada allows an appeal,
it may quash any order made by the court
appealed from, and may make any order that
in its opinion the court appealed from could
and should have made.
(5) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), Part
XVIII of the Criminal Code applies mutatis
mutandis to appeals under this section.
(6) A court may punish any person who
contravenes or fails to comply with a
prohibition or direction made or given by it
this section by a fine in the discretion
of the court, or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years.
(7) Any proceedings pursuant to an infor
mation of the Attorney General of Canada or
the attorney general of a province under this
section shall be tried by the court without a
jury, and the procedure applicable in injunc
tion proceedings in the superior courts of the
province shall, in so far as possible, apply.
(8) This section applies in respect of all
prosecutions under this Act whether com
menced before or after the 1st day of
November 1952 and in respect of all acts or
things, whether committed or done before or
after that date.
(9) In this section "superior court of criminal
jurisdiction" means a superior court of
criminal jurisdiction as defined in the Criminal
Code. R.S., c. 314, s. 31 ; 1960, c. 45, s. 12.
3 1. (1) Notwithstanding anything con
tained in Part V, where any person is
convicted of an offence under Part V, the
court before whom such person was convicted
and sentenced may, from time to time within
three years thereafter, require the convicted
person to submit such information with respect
to the business of such person as the court
deems advisable, and without restricting the
generality of the foregoing the court may
require a full disclosure of all transactions,
operations or activities since the date of the
offence under or with respect to any contracts,
agreements or arrangements, actual or tacit,
that the convicted person may at any time
have entered into with any other person
touching or concerning the business of the
person convicted.
(2) The court may punish any failure to
comply with an order under this section by a
fine in the discretion of the court or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years. 1960, c. 45, s. 13.

# PARTY

## OFFENCES IN RELATION TO TRADE

**32.** (1) Every one who conspires, combines,
  * (_a_) to limit unduly the facilities for trans
porting, producing, manufacturing, supply
ing, storing or dealing in any article,
  * (_b_) to prevent, limit or lessen, unduly, the
manufacture or production of an article, or
to enhance unreasonably the price thereof,
  * (_c_) to prevent, or lessen, unduly, competi
tion in the production, manufacture, pur
chase, barter, sale, storage, rental, transpor
tation or supply of an article, or in the
price of insurance upon persons or property,
or
  * (_d_) to restrain or injure trade or commerce
in relation to any article,
is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable
to imprisonment for two years.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), in a prosecution
under subsection (1), the court shall not
convict the accused if the conspiracy, combi
nation, agreement or arrangement relates
only to one or more of the following:
  * (_a_) the exchange of statistics,
  * (_b_) the defining of product standards,
  * (_c_) the exchange of credit information,
  * (_d_) definition of trade terms,
  * (_e_) cooperation in research and develop
ment,
(J) restriction of advertising, or
  * (_g_) some other matter not enumerated in
subsection (3).
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the
conspiracy, combination, agreement or
arrangement has lessened or is likely to lessen
competition unduly in respect of one of the
following :
  * (_a_) prices,
  * (_b_) quantity or quality of production,
  * (_c_) markets or customers, or
  * (_d_) channels or methods of distribution,
if the conspiracy, combination, agreement
arrangement has restricted or is likely to
any person from entering into or
a business in a trade or industry.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), in a prosecution
under subsection (1) the court shall not convict
the accused if the conspiracy, combination,
agreement or arrangement relates only to the
export of articles from Canada.
(5) Subsection (4) does not apply if the
conspiracy, combination, agreement or
arrangement
  * (_a_) has resulted or is likely to result in a
reduction or limitation of the volume of
exports of an article ;
  * (_b_) has restrained or injured or is likely to
restrain or injure the export business of any
domestic competitor who is not a party to
the conspiracy, combination, agreement or
arrangement ;
  * (_c_) has restricted or is likely to restrict any
person from entering into the business of
exporting articles from Canada ; or
  * (_d_) has lessened or is likely to lessen
competition unduly in relation to an article
in the domestic market. 1960, c. 45, s. 13.

**33.** Every person who is a party or privy
to or knowingly assists in, or in the formation
of, a merger or monopoly is guilty of an
indictable offence and is liable to imprison
ment for two years. 1960, c. 45, s. 13.

**34.** (1) Every one engaged in a business
who
  * (_a_) is a party or privy to, or assists in, any
sale that discriminates to his knowledge,
directly or indirectly, against competitors
of a purchaser of articles from him in that
any discount, rebate, allowance, price
concession or other advantage is granted to
the purchaser over and above any discount,
rebate, allowance, price concession or other
advantage that, at the time the articles are
sold to such purchaser, is available to such
competitors in respect of a sale of articles
of like quality and quantity;
  * (_b_) engages in a policy of selling articles in
any area of Canada at prices lower than
those exacted by him elsewhere in Canada,
having the effect or tendency of substan
tially lessening competition or eliminating
a competitor in such part of Canada, or
designed to have such effect ; or
  * (_c_) engages in a policy of selling articles at
prices unreasonably low, having the effect
or tendency of substantially lessening
competition or eliminating a competitor, or
designed to have such effect,
is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable
to imprisonment for two years.
(2) It is not an offence under paragraph
(l)(a) to be a party or privy to, or assist in
any sale mentioned therein unless the dis
count, rebate, allowance, price concession or
other advantage was granted as part of a
practice of discriminating as described in that
paragraph.
(3) Paragraph (l)(a) shall not be construed
to prohibit a cooperative society from return
ing to producers or consumers, or a cooperative
wholesale society from returning to its
constituent retail or wholesale members, the
whole or any part of the net surplus made in
its trading operations in proportion to
purchases made from or sales made to the
society. 1960, c. 45, s. 13.

**35.** (1) In this section "allowance" means
any discount, rebate, price concession or other
advantage that is or purports to be offered or
granted for advertising or display purposes
and is collateral to a sale or sales of articles
but is not applied directly to the selling price.
(2) Every one engaged in a business who is
a party or privy to the granting of an
allowance to any purchaser that is not offered
on proportionate terms to other purchasers in
competition with the first-mentioned purchas
er, (which other purchasers are in this section
called "competing purchasers"), is guilty of
an indictable offence and is liable to impris
onment for two years.
(3) For the purposes of this section, an
allowance is offered on proportionate terms
if
  * (_a_) the allowance offered to a purchaser is
in approximately the same proportion to
the value of sales to him as the allowance
offered to each competing purchaser is to
the total value of sales to such competing
purchaser,
(6) in any case where advertising or other
expenditures or services are exacted in
return therefor, the cost thereof required to
be incurred by a purchaser is in approxi
mately the same proportion to the value of
sales to him as the cost of such advertising
or other expenditures or services required
to be incurred by each competing purchaser
is to the total value of sales to such
competing purchaser, and
  * (_c_) in any case where services are exacted
in return therefor, the requirements thereof
have regard to the kinds of services that
competing purchasers at the same or
different levels of distribution are ordinarily
able to perform or cause to be performed.
1960, c. 45, s. 13.

**36.** (1) Every one who, for the purpose of
promoting the sale or use of an article, makes
any materially misleading representation to
the public, by any means whatever, concerning
the price at which such or like articles have
been, are, or will be, ordinarily sold, is guilty
of an offence punishable on summary convic
tion.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person
who publishes an advertisement that he
accepts in good faith for publication in the
ordinary course of his business. 1960, c. 45, s.

**13.**

**37.** (1) Every one who publishes or causes
to be published an advertisement containing
a statement that purports to be a statement
of fact but that is untrue, deceptive or
misleading or is intentionally so worded or
arranged that it is deceptive or misleading, is
guilty of an indictable offence and is liable
to imprisonment for five years, if the
advertisement is published
  * (_a_) to promote, directly or indirectly, the
sale or disposal of property or any interest
therein, or
guarantee of the performance, efficacy or
length of life of anything that is not based
upon an adequate and proper test of that
thing, the proof of which lies upon the
accused, is, if the advertisement is published
to promote, directly or indirectly, the sale or
disposal of that thing, guilty of an offence
punishable on summary conviction.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to
a person who publishes an advertisement that
he accepts in good faith for publication in the
ordinary course of his business.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (2), a test
that is made by the National Research
Council of Canada or by any other public
department is an adequate and proper test,
but no reference shall be made in an
advertisement to indicate that a test has been
made by the National Research Council or
other public department unless the advertise
ment has, before publication, been approved
and permission to publish it has been given
in writing by the President of the National
Research Council or by the deputy head of
the public department, as the case may be.
(5) Nothing in subsection (4) shall be
deemed to exclude, for the purposes of this
section, any other adequate or proper test.
1968-69, c. 38, s. 116.

**38.** (1) In this section "dealer" means a
person engaged in the business of manufac
turing or supplying or selling any article or
commodity.
(2) No dealer shall directly or indirectly by
agreement, threat, promise or any other means
whatever, require or induce or attempt to
require or induce any other person to resell
an article or commodity
  * (_a_) at a price specified by the dealer or
established by agreement,
(6) at a price not less than a minimum price
specified by the dealer or established by
agreement,
  * (_c_) at a markup or discount specified by the
dealer or established by agreement,
  * (_d_) at a markup not less than a minimum
markup specified by the dealer or estab
lished by agreement, or
  * (_e_) at a discount not greater than a
maximum discount specified by the dealer
or established by agreement,
whether such markup or discount or minimum
markup or maximum discount is expressed as
a percentage or otherwise.
(3) No dealer shall refuse to sell or supply
an article or commodity to any other person
for the reason that such other person
  * (_a_) has refused to resell or to offer for resale
the article or commodity
  * (_i_) at a price specified by the dealer or
established by agreement,
  * (_ii_) at a price not less than a minimum
price specified by the dealer or established
by agreement,
  * (_iii_) at a markup or discount specified by
the dealer or established by agreement,
  * (_iv_) at a markup not less than a minimum
markup specified by the dealer or estab
lished by agreement, or
  * (_v_) at a discount not greater than a
maximum discount specified by the dealer
or established by agreement ; or
  * (_b_) has resold or offered to resell the article
or commodity
  * (_i_) at a price less than a price or minimum
price specified by the dealer or established
by agreement,
  * (_ii_) at a markup less than a markup or
minimum markup specified by the dealer
or established by agreement, or
  * (_iii_) at a discount greater than a discount
or maximum discount specified by the
dealer or established by agreement.
(4) Every person who violates subsection (2)
or (3) is guilty of an indictable offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine in the discretion
of the court or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years or to both.
(5) Where, in a prosecution under this
section, it is proved that the person charged
refused or counselled the refusal to sell or
an article to any other person, no
inference unfavourable to the person charged
shall be drawn from such evidence if he
the court that he and any one upon
whose report he depended had reasonable
cause to believe and did believe
  * (_a_) that the other person was making a
practice of using articles supplied by the
person charged as loss-leaders, that is to
say, not for the purpose of making a profit
thereon but for purposes of advertising ;
  * (_b_) that the other person was making a
practice of using articles supplied by the
person charged not for the purpose of
selling such articles at a profit but for the
purpose of attracting customers to his store
in the hope of selling them other articles;
  * (_c_) that the other person was making a
practice of engaging in misleading adver
tising in respect of articles supplied by the
person charged ; or
  * (_d_) that the other person made a practice
of not providing the level of servicing that
purchasers of such articles might reasonably
expect from such other person. R.S., c. 314,
s. 34; 1960, c. 45, s. 14.

**39.** Nothing in this Part shall be construed
to deprive any person of any civil right of
action. 1960, c. 45, s. 15.

## PART VI

## OTHER OFFENCES
1960, c. 45, s. 16.

**40.** If any person, who has been duly
served with an order, issued by the Commission
or any member thereof requiring him to
attend or to produce any books, papers,
records or other documents, and to whom, at
the time of service, payment or tender has
been made of his reasonable travelling
expenses according to the scale in force with
respect to witnesses in civil suits in the
superior court of the province in which such
person is summoned to attend, fails to attend
and give evidence, or to produce any book,
paper, record or other document as required
by the said order, he is, unless he shows that
there was good and sufficient cause for such
failure, guilty of an offence and liable upon
summary conviction to a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months or to
both. R.S., c. 314,s. 36.

**41.** (1) No person shall in any manner
impede or prevent or attempt to impede or
prevent any inquiry or examination under
this Act.
(2) Every person who violates subsection (1)
is guilty of an offence and is liable on
summary conviction or on conviction on
indictment to a fine of not more than five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to both. R.S.,
c. 314, s. 37.

**42.** (1) Every person who violates subsec
tion 10(2) is guilty of an offence and is liable
on summary conviction or on conviction on
indictment to a fine of not more than five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to both.
(2) Every person who, without good and
sufficient cause, the proof whereof lies on
him, refuses, neglects or fails to comply with
a notice in writing requiring a written return
under oath or affirmation, pursuant to section
9 or subsection 22(2) is guilty of an offence
and liable on summary conviction or on
conviction on indictment to a fine of not
more than five thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to both.
(3) Where a corporation commits an offence
against subsection (1) or (2) any director or
officer of such corporation who assents to or
acquiesces in the offence committed by the
corporation is guilty of that of fence personally
and cumulatively with the corporation and
with his co-directors or associate officers R S
c. 314, s. 38.

**43.** Every person who, without good and
notice in writing requiring evidence upon
affidavit or written affirmation, pursuant to
12(1) is guilty of an offence and
liable on summary conviction or on conviction
on indictment to a fine of not more than five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to both. R.S.,
c. 314, s. 39.
Procedure

**44.** (1) Where an indictment is found
against an accused, other than a corporation,
for any offence against this Act, the accused
may elect to be tried without a jury and
where he so elects he shall be tried by the
judge presiding at the court at which the
indictment is found, or the judge presiding at
any subsequent sittings of that court, or at
any court where the indictment comes on for
trial ; and in the event of such election being
made the proceedings subsequent to the
election shall be regulated in so far as may
be applicable by the provisions of the Criminal
Code relating to the trial of indictable offences
by a judge without a jury.
(2) No court other than a superior court of
criminal jurisdiction, as defined in the
Criminal Code, has power to try any offence
under section 32 or 33.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the Crimi
nal Code or in any other statute or law, a
corporation charged with an offence under
this Act shall be tried without the intervention
of a jury.
(4) In any case where subsection 30(2) is
applicable the Attorney General of Canada
or the attorney general of the province may
in his discretion institute proceedings either
by way of an information under that
subsection or by way of prosecution. 1953-54,
c. 51, s. 750; I960, c. 45, s. 17.

**45.** (1) In this section
"agent of a participant" means a person who
by a document admitted in evidence under
this section appears to be or is otherwise
proven to be an officer, agent, servant,
employee or representative of a participant ;
includes any document appear
ing to be a carbon, photographic or other
copy of a document ;
means any accused and any
person who, although not accused, is alleged
in the charge .or indictment to have been a
co-conspirator or otherwise party or privy
to the offence charged.
(2) In a prosecution under Part V,
  * (_a_) anything done, said or agreed upon by
an agent of a participant shall prima facie
be deemed to have been done, said or
agreed upon, as the case may be, with the
authority of that participant ;
  * (_b_) a document written or received by an
agent of a participant shall prima facie be
deemed to have been written or received, as
the case may be, with the authority of that
participant ; and
  * (_c_) a document proved to have been in the
possession of a participant or on premises
used or occupied by a participant or in the
possession of an agent of a participant shall
be admitted in evidence without further
proof thereof and is prima facie proof
  * (_i_) that the participant had knowledge of
the document and its contents,
  * (_ii_) that anything recorded in or by the
document as having been done, said or
agreed upon by any participant or by an
agent of a participant was done, said or
agreed upon as recorded and, where
anything is recorded in or by the
document as having been done, said or
agreed upon by an agent of a participant,
that it was done, said or agreed upon
with the authority of that participant,
  * (_iii_) that the document, where it appears
to have been written by any participant
or by an agent of a participant, was so
written and, where it appears to have
been written by an agent of a participant,
that it was written with the authority of
that participant. R.S., c. 314, s. 41 ; 1960,
c. 45, s. 18.

**46.** (1) Subject to this section, the Attorney
and under this Act.
(2) The trial of an offence under Part V in
the Exchequer Court shall be without a jury.
(3) For the purposes of Part XVIII of the
Criminal Code the judgment of the Exchequer
Court in any prosecution or proceedings under
Part V of this Act shall be deemed to be the
judgment of a court of appeal and an appeal
therefrom lies to the Supreme Court of
Canada as provided in Part XVIII of the
Criminal Code for appeals from a court of
appeal.
(4) Proceedings under subsection 30(2) may
in the discretion of the Attorney General be
instituted in either the Exchequer Court or a
superior court of criminal jurisdiction in the
province, but no prosecution shall be instituted
in the Exchequer Court in respect of an
offence under Part V without the consent of
all the accused. 1960, c. 45, s. 19.

## PART VII
Investigation of Monopolistic Situations

**47.** (1) The Director upon his own initia
tive may and upon direction from the Minister
or at the instance of the Commission shall
carry out an inquiry concerning the existence
and effect of conditions or practices having
relation to any commodity which may be the
subject of trade or commerce and which
conditions or practices are related to monopo
listic situations or restraint of trade, and for
the purposes of this Act any such inquiry
shall be deemed to be an inquiry under section

**8.**
(2) It is the duty of the Commission to
consider any evidence or material brought
before it under subsection (1) together with
further evidence or material as the
Commission considers advisable and to report
thereon in writing to the Minister, and for
the purposes of this Act any such report shall
deemed to be a report under section 19.
c. 314, s. 42.
Regulations and Report to Parliament

**48.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations, not inconsistent with this
Act, as to him seem necessary for carrying out
this Act and for the efficient administration
thereof. R.S., c. 314, s. 43.

**49.** The Director shall report annually to
the Minister the proceedings under this Act,
and the Minister shall within thirty days after
he receives it lay the report before Parliament,
or, if Parliament is not then in session, within
the first fifteen days after the commencement
of the next ensuing session. R.S., c. 314, s. 44.
