
# CHAPTER C-27
An Act to establish a Department of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of Consumer and Corporate Affairs Act. 1967-
68, c. 16, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
1967-68, c. 16, s. 2.

## DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND CORPORATE
AFFAIRS

**3.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Consumer and Corporate Affairs over
which the Minister of Consumer and Corpo
rate Affairs appointed by Commission under
the Great Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister holds office during pleas
ure and has the management and direction of
the Department of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs. 1967-68, c. 16, s. 3.

**4.** T 1 he Governor in Council may appoint
an officer called the Deputy Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs to be the
deputy head of the Department of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs and to hold office
during pleasure. 1967-68, c. 16, s. 4.

**5.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister extend to and include all matters
over which the Parliament of Canada has
jurisdiction, not by law assigned to any other
department, branch or agency of the Govern-
of Canada, relating to
  * (_a_) consumer affairs ;
  * (_b_) corporations and corporate securities;
  * (_c_) combines, mergers, monopolies and
restraint of trade ;
  * (_d_) bankruptcy and insolvency ;
  * (_e_) patents, copyrights and trade marks ;
(/) standards of identity and performance
in relation to consumer goods; and
  * (_g_) legal metrology. 1967-68, c. 16, s. 5;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 52.

**6.** (1) In exercising his powers and carrying
out his duties and functions in relation to
consumer affairs under this Act, the Minister
shall
  * (_a_) initiate, recommend or undertake pro
grams designed to promote the interests of
the Canadian consumer ;
  * (_b_) coordinate programs of the Government
of Canada that are designed to promote
the interests of the Canadian consumer ;
  * (_c_) promote and encourage the institution
of practices or conduct tending to the better
protection of the Canadian consumer and
cooperate with provincial governments or
agencies thereof, or any bodies, organiza
tions or persons, in any programs having
similar objects ;
  * (_d_) undertake, recommend or assist in
programs to assist the Canadian consumer
to be more fully informed about goods and
services offered to the consumer ; and
  * (_e_) provide such inspection services for the
protection of the Canadian consumer as
  * (_i_) he considers necessary for the enforce
ment of any Act under his administration,
or
  * (_ii_) the Governor in Council may direct
him to provide.
(2) For the purpose of carrying out his
duties and functions under this Act, the
Minister may undertake research into matters
to which the powers, duties and functions of
the Minister extend, cooperate with any or
all provinces or with any department or
agency of the Government of Canada or any
organization or person undertaking such
and publish or cause to be published,
or assist in the publication of, so much of the
of any such research as the Minister
deems appropriate and in the public interest.
(3) The Minister may designate any person
as an inspector for the purpose of providing
an inspection service pursuant to subsection
(1). 1967-68, c. 16, s. 6 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 52.

**7.** The Governor in Council may establish
a consumer advisory council to advise or assist
the Minister or to perform such duties and
functions as the Governor in Council may
specify, and may fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid to the persons appointed
as members thereof. 1967-68, c. 16, s. 7.

**8.** (1) There shall continue to be a Registrar
General of Canada who shall register all
instruments of summons, proclamations, com
missions, letters patent, letters patent of land,
writs and other instruments and documents
issued under the Great Seal, and all bonds,
warrants of extradition, warrants for removal
of prisoners, leases, releases, deeds of sale,
surrenders and all other instruments requiring
registration.
(2) The Minister shall perform the duties
of the Registrar General of Canada.
(3) The Minister may appoint one or more
Deputy Registrars General of Canada from
among the officials of his department and
delegate thereto such duties and functions as
he deems appropriate.
(4) A Deputy Registrar General may sign
and certify the registration of all instruments
and documents required to be registered and
all such copies of the same or of any records
in the custody of the Registrar General of
Canada as are required to be certified or
authenticated as being copies of any such
instruments, documents or records. 1967-68, c.
16, s. 8.

**9.** Where in any special Act of the
Parliament of Canada enacted before the 21st
day of December 1967, any person is required
to file or register any instrument of trust,
mortgage, hypothec, bond, charge, lease, sale,
bailment, assignment, surrender or other
instrument, document or record or copy
thereof, or any notice, in the office or
department of the Secretary of State, the
filing or registration required shall be made
in the office of the Registrar General of
Canada unless the Governor in Council by
order designates another office or department
for such filing or registration. 1967-68, c. 16, s.

**11.**

**10.** The Minister shall, on or before the
31st day of January next following the end
of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first five days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting, submit
to Parliament a report showing the operations
of the Department of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs for that fiscal year. 1967-68, c. 16, s. 9.
