members of the House of Commons

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Dominion
Controverted Elections Act. R.S., c. 87, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"candidate" means any person elected to
serve as a member, and any person who has
been nominated as a candidate at an
election ;
"clerk" or "clerk of the court" means the clerk
of the Crown, chief clerk, registrar or
prothonotary of the court, or, in Ontario,
the senior registrar of the Supreme Court
of Ontario, or any other officer of the court
prescribed for the purpose in question ;
"corrupt practices" means acts in reference to
elections that are declared to be corrupt
practices by the Canada Elections Act, or
any other Act of the Parliament of Canada,
or recognized as such by the common law
of Parliament ;
"the court", as respects elections in the several
provinces hereinafter mentioned, means
respectively the courts hereinafter men
tioned, or any judge thereof, that is to say :
  * (_a_) in the Province of Ontario, the High
Court Division of the Supreme Court ;
(6) in the Province of Quebec, the Superior
Court ;
  * (_c_) in the Province of Nova Scotia, the
Supreme Court ;
  * (_d_) in the Province of New Brunswick, the
Supreme Court ;
  * (_e_) in the Province of Manitoba, the Court
of Appeal ;
(/) in the Province of British Columbia, the
Supreme Court ;
  * (_gf_) in the Province of Prince Edward Island,
the Supreme Court ;
  * (_h_) in the Province of Saskatchewan, the
Court of Queen s Bench ;
  * (_i_) in the Province of Alberta, the Supreme
Court ;
0) in the Yukon Territory and in the
Northwest Territories, the Territorial Court
thereof ;
  * (_fc_) in the Province of Newfoundland, the
Supreme Court ;
election" means an election of a member to
serve in the House of Commons of Canada ;
election list" means the list of petitions
presented under this Act required by this
Act to be made out by the clerk of the
court ;
electoral district" means an electoral district
entitled to return a member or members;
illegal practices" means acts in relation to
elections that are declared to be illegal
practices by the Canada Elections Act;
member" means a member of the House of
Commons of Canada;
official agent" has the same meaning as in
the Canada Elections Act ;
petition" or "election petition" means a
petition complaining of an undue return,
or undue election of a member, or of no
return, or of a double return, or of matters
contained in a special return made, or of
any unlawful act by any candidate not
returned by which he is alleged to have
become disqualified to sit in the House of
Commons;
"prescribed" means prescribed by this Act, or
by the rules of court made under this Act ;
rules of court" means rules made as
hereinafter provided ;
Speaker" means the Speaker of the House
of Commons; and, when the office of
Speaker is vacant, or when the Speaker is
absent from Canada or is unable to act,
means the Clerk of the House of Commons,
or any other officer for the time being
performing the duties of the Clerk of the
said House ;
"summary trial court" means a court for the
summary trial of any person charged with
having committed corrupt or illegal prac
tices at an election;
judges" means the two judges trying an
election petition or performing any duty to
which the enactment in which the expression
occurs has reference.
(2) Each of the said courts has, subject to
this Act, the same powers, jurisdiction and
authority with reference to an election petition
and the proceedings thereon, as if such
petition were an ordinary cause within its
jurisdiction.
(3) When, under this Act, two judges are
required for the trial of an election petition
in the Yukon Territory, or for the hearing of
a special case under this Act, such judges shall
be the judge of the Territorial Court and a
judge of the Court of Appeal of British
Columbia or of the Supreme Court of British
Columbia, or two judges of the said courts of
British Columbia, or either of such courts,
and every such judge shall, for the purposes
of this Act, have all the powers of a judge of
the Territorial Court. R.S., c. 87, s. 2; R.S., c.
334, s. 10.

## VENUE

**3.** In the Province of Quebec, the cause of
action shall be held to have arisen at the
place where the election was held, and the
election petition shall be presented to the
court in the judicial district in which such
place lies. R.S., c. 87, s. 3.

## ROTA

**4.** The rotation or order in which trials
under this Act, and any duties assigned by
this Act to a single judge, shall be undertaken
or performed by the judges of the court, shall,
if not prescribed by the law of the province

**5.** (1) A petition may be presented to the
court by any one or more of the following
persons :
  * (_a_) a candidate at such election ; or
(6) any person who had the right to vote at
such election.
(2) The production of the voters list
containing the name of the petitioner as set
forth in the petition, or of a copy thereof
certified by the Chief Electoral Officer to be
a true copy of the voters list used at the
election in the electoral district to which the
petition relates, is conclusive evidence that
the petitioner could lawfully present the
petition ; and if the petitioner was a candidate
at such election, or if there are no voters lists,
an affidavit by the petitioner that he was a
candidate or a duly qualified voter at such
election, as the case may be, is conclusive
evidence that the petitioner could lawfully
present the petition. R.S., c. 87, s. 5.

**6.** Whenever a petition under this Act,
complaining of no return, is presented, such
order may be made thereon by the court as is
deemed expedient for compelling a return to
be made, or the court may allow such petition
to be tried in the manner provided in this Act
with respect to ordinary election petitions.
R.S., c. 87, s. 6.

**7.** Whenever any election petition com
plains of the conduct of any returning officer,
such returning officer shall, for all the
purposes of this Act, except the admission of
respondents in his place, be deemed to be a
respondent. R.S., c. 87, s. 7.

**8.** Two or more candidates may be made
respondents to the same petition, and their
cases may, for the sake of convenience, be
tried at the same time; but, as regards the
security to be given on behalf of the petitioner,
and for all other purposes of this Act, such
petition shall be deemed to be a separate
petition against each respondent. R.S., c. 87,
s. 8.

**9.** (i) The petition presented under this
Act may be in Form B in the schedule.
(2) The petition shall complain of the
election or return of a member, or that
return has been made, or that a double
return has been made or of matter contained
in any special return made, or of some
unlawful or corrupt act or acts, and shall
contain such particulars of the complaint set
out in the petition as may be necessary to
prevent surprise or unnecessary expense to
the respondent and to insure a fair and
effectual trial ; and it shall be signed by the
petitioner, or all the petitioners if there are
more than one.
(3) The judge may, on application of either
of the parties made within five days of the
service of the petition, summarily determine
the sufficiency of the particulars given in the
petition, and shall, if they be found insuffi
cient, order the production by the petitioner,
within a further delay of five days, of such
additional particulars as the judge may on
such order prescribe and define.
(4) The delays prescribed in sections 17 and
18 shall run only from the date of the decision
upon such application, or the date on which
the further particulars ordered are produced,
or the date when the delay for their production
has expired. R.S., c. 87, s. 9.

**10.** (1) A petition complaining of the
undue return or the undue election of a
member, or of a double return, may be
presented within the times hereinafter limited,
namely :
  * (_a_) in any case either at any time before
the expiration of twenty-eight days after
the date of the issue of the Canada Gazette
in which notice of the return is first
published ;
(6) at any time before the expiration of
fourteen days after the returning officer
receives the return and declarations respect
ing election expenses by the member to
whose election the petition related and his
official agent ; or
  * (_c_) if the petition complains of a corrupt or
illegal practice and specifically alleges a
payment of money or any other act to have
been made or done by the member to whose
return the petition relates or by an agent
of such member with the privity of such
member or his official agent in pursuance
or in furtherance of the corrupt or illegal
practice alleged in the petition, at any time
before the expiration of twenty-eight days
after the date of such payment or act.
(2) In the case following there shall be
substituted for the day upon which the return
and declarations respecting election expenses
are received by the returning officer,
  * (_a_) if the return and declarations are
received on different days, the day upon
which the last of them is received ; and
(6) if there is an authorized excuse for
failing to make and transmit the return and
declarations, the date of the allowance of
the excuse, or if there was a failure as
regards two or more of them and the excuse
was allowed at different times, the date of
the allowance of the last excuse.
(3) Any petition presented within any of
the times hereinbefore limited, may, upon an
allegation of a corrupt or illegal practice upon
which a petition might be presented, and with
the leave of the court, be amended by alleging
such corrupt or illegal practice at any time
before the expiration of the time within which
a petition based upon such corrupt or illegal
practice might have been presented.
(4) Where a petition complains of no return
it may be presented at any time after the
expiration of seven days after the day upon
which the return should have been made and
before it is made.
(5) j n case an y petition is presented, the
sitting member whose election and return is
petitioned against may, not later than fifteen
days after service of such petition against his
election and return, file a petition complaining
of any unlawful and corrupt act by any
candidate at the same election who was not
returned, or by an agent of such candidate
with such candidate s consent or privity.
(6) The petition shall contain such particu
lars of the complaint therein set out as may
be necessary to prevent surprise or unnecessary
expense to the respondent and to insure a fair
and effectual trial, and may be in Form C in
the schedule.
(7) The judge may, on application of either
of the parties made within five days of the
service of the petition, summarily determine
the sufficiency of the particulars given in the
petition, and shall, if they be found insuffi
cient, order the production by the petitioner,
within a further delay of five days, of such
additional particulars as the judge may on
such order prescribe and define. R.S., c. 87,
s. 10.

**11.** Presentation of a petition shall be
made by delivering it at the office of the clerk
of the court, during office hours, or in any
other prescribed manner. R.S., c. 87, s. 11.

**12.** (1) At the time of the presentation of
the petition, security for the payment of all
costs, charges and expenses that may become
payable by the petitioner shall be given on
behalf of the petitioner
  * (_a_) to any person summoned as a witness
on his behalf, or
(6) to the member whose election or return
is complained of, who is hereinafter referred
to as the respondent, or
  * (_c_) to the returning officer, if his conduct is
complained of, or
  * (_d_) to the candidate not elected, whose
conduct is complained of as aforesaid.
(2) The security shall be in the amount of
one thousand dollars, and shall be given by a
deposit with the clerk of the court of money
that is legal tender. R.S., c. 87, s. 12.

**13.** The clerk of the court shall give a
receipt for such deposit, which is conclusive
evidence of the making of such deposit and
the sufficiency thereof. R.S., c. 87, s. 13.

**14.** Qn presentation of the petition the
clerk of the court shall send a copy thereof
by registered mail to the returning officer of
the electoral district to which the petition
relates. R.S., c. 87, s. 14.

**15.** A copy of the petition and a copy of
the receipt of the clerk of the court for the
deposit shall be served upon the respondent
within five days after the day on which the
has been presented. R.S., c. 87, s. 15.

**16.** (1) An election petition under this Act,
and a copy of the receipt of the clerk of the
court for the deposit, may be served upon any
party who was a candidate at the election, in
respect to which the proceedings are had,
either personally or by sending a copy of the
same by registered mail to the address for
serving of papers given in the nomination
paper of such party, and may be served upon
any petitioner, either personally or by sending
the same by registered mail to the address for
serving papers mentioned in the petition.
(2) If no such address is given then it is a
sufficient service to post up a copy of the
petition, receipt, document or paper in the
office of the clerk of the court, and any other
process or document may be served as nearly
as possible in the manner in which similar
papers are served in civil matters in the court
in which the proceedings are had or in such
other manner as the rules or any judge of the
court may prescribe. R.S., c. 87, s. 16.

**17.** Within fifteen days after service of a
petition the respondent may file with the
clerk of the court a written answer to the
petition and a copy of such answer shall be
served upon the petitioner. R.S., c. 87, s. 17.

**18.** After the expiration of fifteen days
after the service of the petition, whether an
answer is filed or served or not, the petition
shall be held at issue and the court may at
any time thereafter, upon the application of
either party, fix some convenient time and
place for the trial of the petition. U.S., c. 87,
s. 18.

**19.** (1) The respondent may at any time
file and serve a notice that he admits the
truth of the allegations made in the petition
or any one or more of such allegations, and if
the hearing of the allegation so admitted is
proceeded with notwithstanding such admis
sion, the respondent is not liable for any costs
occasioned by such further proceedings, except
in so far as the court may award costs against
forthwith set the case down for trial and the
court shall fix a day at as early a date as may
be practicable for such trial.
(3) The court may determine the case upon
the petition, the notice of admission of the
respondent and such other papers and facts
as may appear in the record of the case, or
may require such witnesses to be summoned,
such evidence taken and such papers produced
as to the court may seem requisite or desirable.
R.S..C. 87,8. 19.

## PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION OF PARTIES

**20.** (1) Any party to an election petition,
whether petitioner or respondent, may, at any
time after such petition is at issue, before or
pending the trial thereof, be examined by or
before a judge or an examiner, in the manner
hereinafter directed, by a party adverse in
point of interest concerning any matter raised
by such petition ; and any party so examined
may be further examined on his own behalf,
in relation to any matter respecting which he
has been examined in chief; but such
explanatory examination shall be proceeded
with immediately after the examination in
chief, and not at any future period, except by
leave of the court.
(2) When one of several petitioners or
respondents has been so examined, any other
petitioner or respondent, united in interest,
may be examined on his own behalf or on
behalf of those united with him in interest, to
the same extent as the party so examined.
R.S., c. 87, s. 20.
2 1. Whenever a petition has been filed
claiming the seat for a candidate, such
candidate, although not a party to the
petition, may be orally examined as if he
were a petitioner. R.S., c. 87, s. 21.

**22.** (1) Any party to be examined orally
a judge, a judge of a county court, a
in chancery, clerk of the Crown, or
examiner of the court in which such
petition is pending, or before any
named for the purpose by the
court.
(2) Such examination shall take place in
the presence of the parties, their counsel,
agents or attorneys; and the party so
examined orally shall be subject to cross-
examination and re-examination; and such
examination, cross-examination and re-exami
nation shall be conducted as nearly as possible
in the mode now in use in superior courts on
a trial of an action or hearing of a cause, or,
in the Province of Quebec, at the trial of a
civil cause by a jury. R.S., c. 87, s. 22.

**23.** (1) The depositions taken upon any
such oral examination as aforesaid, shall be
taken down in writing by the examiner, not
ordinarily by question and answer, but in the
form of a narrative, and when completed shall
be read over to the witness, and signed by
him, in the presence of the parties, or of such
of them as think fit to attend.
(2) In case the witness refuses or is unable
to sign the depositions, then the examiner
shall sign them.
(3) Such examiner may upon every exami
nation state any special matter to the court if
he thinks fit.
(4) The examiner may, in his discretion,
put down any particular question or answer,
if there appears to be any special reason for
so doing; and any question that is objected
to shall, at the request of either party, be
noticed or referred to by the examiner in or
upon the depositions; and he shall state his
opinion thereon to the counsel, agents,
attorneys or parties; and, if requested by
either party, he shall refer to such statement
on the face of the depositions. R.S., c. 87,
s. 23.

**24.** When the examination before the
examiner is concluded, the original deposi
tions, authenticated by the signature of such
examiner, shall be transmitted by him to the
office of the court to be there filed ; and any
party to the petition may have a copy thereof,
or of any part or portion thereof, upon
payment for the copy in such manner as is
prescribed by the court in that behalf. R.S., c.
87, s. 24.

**25.** The attendance of a party or other
person for oral examination or cross-examina
tion before the examiner, may be compelled
by a writ of subpoena ad testificandum or duces
tecum, in like manner as the attendance of
such party or person, at the trial of the
petition, may be compelled, and any party or
person upon being served with such writ is
bound to attend before the examiner; but
such party or person is entitled to the like
payment for attendance and expenses as if he
had been subpoenaed to attend upon the
trial. R.S., c. 87, s. 25.

**26.** The sheriff, gaoler or other officer,
having the custody of any prisoner, shall take
such prisoner for examination before the
examiner, if so ordered by the court. R.S., c.
87, s. 26.

**27.** Forty-eight hours notice of any such
oral examination or cross-examination shall
be given to the opposite party or parties. R.S.,
c. 87, s. 27.

**28.** (1) Any party or person who refuses or
neglects to attend at the time and place
appointed for his examination or cross-
examination, or who refuses to be sworn or to
answer any lawful question put to him by the
examiner, or by any person entitled so to do,
or his counsel, agent, attorney or solicitor,
may be punished as for a contempt of court.
(2) If any witness demurs or objects to any
question put to him, the question so put, and
the demurrer or objection of the witness
thereto, shall be taken down by the examiner,
and transmitted by him to the officer of the
court to be there filed ; and the validity of
such demurrer or objection shall be decided
by the court and the costs of and occasioned
by such demurrer or objection are in the
discretion of the court. R.S., c. 87, s. 28.

**29.** Any party may, at the trial or other
case, the court may look at the whole of
the examination, and if it is of the opinion
that any other part is so connected with the
part to be so used that the last mentioned
part ought not to be used without such other
part, it may direct such other part to be put
in evidence. R.S., c. 87, s. 29.

## PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
3Q. (1) Any party to an election petition,
whether petitioner or respondent, may, at any
time after such petition is at issue, before or
pending the trial thereof, obtain a rule in the
nature of a side bar rule, or order of the court
requiring the adverse party to produce within
ten days after the service thereof, under oath,
all documents in his custody or power relating
to the matters in question, saving all just
exceptions, and to deposit the documents with
the clerk of the court ; and upon such
documents being produced, the party requir
ing such production, or his agent, attorney or
solicitor, may inspect the documents and take
examined copies thereof.
(2) When any person upon whom a rule or
order to produce has been served wishes to
avail himself of any just exception, he shall,
in his affidavit on production, assign a
sufficient reason why he should not produce
and deposit the same in manner aforesaid.
R.S., c. 87, s. 30.
3 1. Such rule or order may issue in vacation
as well as in term, and may be obtained on
the last as well as other days of term ; and
such rule or order shall be dated the day of
the week, month and year on which it was
drawn up and need not specify any other
time or date ; and may be obtained by the
party requiring the same, his agent, attorney
or solicitor, from the clerk of the court. R.S.,
c. 87, s. 31.

**32.** The rule or order for the production of
documents does not require personal service,
and it is sufficient to serve the same upon the
agent, attorney or solicitor of the party. R.S.,
87, s. 32.

**33.** The affidavit on production to be
made by the party who has been served with
rule or order for production may be in, or
to effect of, Form A in the schedule, varied
as the facts require. R.S., c. 87, s. 33.

**34.** Any party who neglects or refuses to
obey a rule or order for the production of
documents may be punished as for a contempt
of court. R.S., c. 87, s. 34.
TRIAL OF PETITIONS

**35.** The clerk of the court shall, as soon as
possible, make out a list of all petitions
presented under this Act that are at issue,
placing them in the order in which they were
presented, and shall keep at his office a copy
of such list open to the inspection of any
person making application. R.S., c. 87, s. 35.

**36.** When, under this Act, more petitions
tnan one are presented relating to the same
election or return, all such petitions shall, in
the election list, be bracketed together, and
shall be dealt with, as far as may be, as one
petition ; but such petitions shall stand in the
election list in the place where the last
presented of them would have stood if it had
been the only one presented as to such
election or return, unless the court otherwise
orders. R.S., c. 87, s. 36.

**37.** (i) Every election petition shall be
tried by two judges without a jury, and it is
competent for the judges on such trial to
decide any question raised as to the admissi-
bility of the evidence offered, or to receive
such evidence under reserve and subject to
adjudication at the final hearing.
(2) The trial of an election petition shall
take place in the electoral district, the election
or return for which is in question, but, if it
appears to the court that special circumstances
exist that make it desirable that the petition
be tried elsewhere than in such electoral
district, the court may appoint such other
place for the trial as appears most convenient.
trial is to take place.
(4) The trial judges may adjourn the trial
from time to time, and from one place to
another in the same electoral district as to
them seems convenient, or, upon cause shown
supported by affidavit, where special circum
stances exist that in their opinion render it
desirable so to do, from one place to another
outside the electoral district, or from a place
inside to a place outside the electoral district,
or vice versa, but the trial shall as far as
practicable be proceeded with from day to
dav until such trial is over.
(5) The trial judges shall proceed with the
trial until all the evidence relevant to the
particulars filed in the case has been heard,
notwithstanding any admission on the part
of the respondent of corrupt or illegal practices
sufficient to void the election, and notwith
standing that in the opinion of the court
enough evidence has been heard to void the
election. R.S., c. 87, s. 37.

**38.** (1) As soon after the expiration of
thirty days from the filing of the petition as
may be practicable, unless a day has already
been appointed for the trial, the clerk of the
court shall apply to the court to appoint and
the court shall appoint a day for the trial of
the petition.
(2) Notice of the date, time and place, when
and where such application is to be made
shall be given by the clerk of the court to the
petitioner and to the respondent at least five
days before such application is made, and if
the petitioner does not appear at the time or
place so fixed, the court shall forthwith
dismiss the petition. R.S., c. 87, s. 38.

**39.** The trial judges shall be received and
attended at the place where they are about to
try an election petition under this Act, if they
are not resident there, in the same manner, so
as circumstances will admit, as if they
about to hold a sitting of the provincial
court of which they are members. R.S., c. 87,
s. 39.
4Q. Qn the trial of an election petition and
in other proceedings under this Act, the trial
judges have, subject to this Act, the same
powers, jurisdiction and authority as a judge
of a superior court for the province in which
such election was held, sitting in term, or
presiding at the trial of an ordinary civil suit,
and the court held by them for such trial is a
court of record. R.S., c. 87, s. 40.
4 j. Unless the trial judges otherwise direct,
any charge of corrupt or illegal practices may
be gone into, and evidence in relation thereto
received, before any proof has been given of
agency on the part of any candidate in respect
of such corrupt or illegal practices. R.S., c. 87,
s. 41.

**42.** Witnesses shall be subpoenaed and
sworn in the same manner, as nearly as
circumstances admit, as in cases within the
jurisdiction of the superior courts in the same
province. R.S., c. 87, s. 42.

**43.** (1) Where at any time after the
presentation of an election petition it is made
to appear to the court or the trial judges that
any witness intends to leave Canada and
cannot attend the trial of an election petition,
or that for any other reason it is desirable in
the interest of justice that the examination of
a witness be proceeded with forthwith, then
on application to the court on notice to the
parties to the petition, the court may grant
an order for the examination of such witness
at a time and place and before a person to be
named in such order, and the witness may
thereupon be examined concerning the matter
complained of in the petition, due notice of
such time and place being given to the parties
to the petition, who may, by their respective
counsel, attend such examination, and exam
ine and cross-examine such witness ; and such
examination shall be reduced to writing and
signed by such witness, and when duly
returned by the examiner, and purporting to
be certified by the examiner, may be used by
either party to the petition on the trial
thereof.
(2) On the trial of an election petition
under this Act, the trial judges may, by order
under their hands, compel the attendance of
any person as a witness who appears to them
to have been concerned in the election to
which the petition relates; and any person
who refuses to obey such order is guilty of
contempt of court.
(3) The trial judges may examine and re-
examine any witness so compelled to attend
or any person present, although such witness
or person is not called and examined by any
party to the petition; and, after the exami
nation of a witness as aforesaid by the trial
judges, such witness may be cross-examined
by or on behalf of the petitioner and
respondent, or either of them.
(4) Upon proof to the satisfaction of the
trial judges of the service of a subpoena upon
any witness who fails to attend or to remain
in attendance in accordance with the require
ments of the subpoena, and that a sufficient
sum for his fees as a witness has been duly
paid or tendered to him, and that the presence
of such witness is material to the ends of
justice, the trial judges may by their warrant,
directed to any sheriff or officer of the court,
or constable, cause such witness to be
apprehended and forthwith brought before
them or any other judges who may thereafter
preside at such trial, to give evidence.
(5) In order to secure his presence as a
witness, such witness may be taken on such
warrant before the trial judges and detained
in the custody of the person to whom the
warrant is directed, or otherwise as the trial
judges may order, until his presence as such
witness is required, or, in the discretion of the
trial judges, he may be released on a
recognizance with or without sureties condi
tioned for his appearance to give evidence.
R.S., c. 87, s. 43.

**44.** No person shall be excused from
any question put to him under this
touching or concerning any election, or
the conduct of any person thereat, or in
relation thereto, on the ground of any
privilege, or that the answer to such question
will tend to criminate such person ; but no
answer given by any person claiming to be
excused on the ground of privilege, or that
such answer will tend to criminate himself,
shall be used in any criminal proceeding
against any such person, other than an
indictment for perjury, if the trial judges give
to the witness a certificate that he claimed
the right to be excused on the grounds
aforesaid, and made full and true answers to
their satisfaction. R.S., c. 87, s. 44.

**45.** The reasonable expenses incurred by
any person in appearing to give evidence at
the trial of an election petition under this
Act, according to the scale allowed to witnesses
on the trial of civil actions in the superior
courts in the same province, may be allowed
to such person by a certificate under the hand
of the trial judges or of the clerk of the court ;
and such expenses, if the witness was called
and examined by the trial judges, shall be
deemed part of the expenses of providing a
court, and in other cases shall be deemed costs
of the party calling the witness, and shall be
taxed against such party interested in the
trial of such petition, as the trial judges
determine. R.S., c. 87, s. 45.

**46.** The trial judges may, in their discre
tion, employ a shorthand writer to take down
the oral evidence given by witnesses at the
trial of the petition; and the expense of
employing such shorthand writer shall be
costs in the case. R.S., c. 87, s. 46.

**47.** On the trial of a petition under this
Act complaining of an undue return and
claiming the seat for any person, the
respondent may give evidence to show that
the election of such person was undue in the
same manner as if he had presented a petition
complaining of such election. R.S., c. 87, s. 47.

**48.** Where, on the trial of an election
petition claiming the seat for any person, a
is proved to have been guilty, by
or by -any person on his behalf of
treating, or undue influence with
respect to any person who voted at such
election, or where any person retained or
employed for reward by or on behalf of such
candidate, for all or any of the purposes of
such election, as agent, clerk, or messenger, or
in any other employment, is proved on such
trial to have voted at such election, there
shall, on the trial of such election petition, be
struck off from the number of votes appearing
to have been given to such candidate, one
vote for every person who voted at such
election, and who is proved to have been so
bribed, treated or unduly influenced, or so
retained or employed for reward as aforesaid.
R.S., c. 87, s. 48.

**49.** Where it is found by the report of the
trial judges that any corrupt practice has been
committed by a candidate at an election, or
by his agent, whether with or without the
actual knowledge and consent of such candi
date, or that any illegal practice has been
committed by a candidate or by his official
agent or by any other agent of the candidate
with the actual knowledge and consent of the
candidate, the election of such candidate, if
he has been elected, is void. R.S., c. 87, s. 49.

**50.** Where, on the trial of an election
petition, a candidate is proved to have
personally engaged any person at the election
to which such petition relates as a canvasser
or agent in relation to the election, knowing
that such person so engaged has, within seven
years previous to such engagement, been
found guilty of any corrupt practice, or that
within five years previous to such engagement
he has been found guilty of any illegal
practice, by any competent legal tribunal or
by the report of any judge or other tribunal
for the trial of election petitions, the election
of such candidate, if he has been elected, is
void. R.S., c. 87, s. 50.
knowledge and consent of the candidates.
R.S., c. 87, s. 51.

**52.** On the trial of an election petition, if
it is proved that a candidate corruptly by
himself, or by or with any other person, or by
any other ways or means on his behalf, at
any time, either before or during the election,
directly or indirectly gave or provided, or
caused to be given or provided, or was
accessory to the giving or providing, or paid
wholly or in part any expenses incurred for,
any meat, drink, refreshment or provision to
or for any person, in order to be elected or for
being elected, or for the purpose of corruptly
influencing such person or any other person
to give or refrain from giving his vote at such
election, there shall be struck off from the
number of votes given for such candidate one
vote for every person who has voted and is
proved on such trial to have corruptly
accepted or taken any such meat, drink,
refreshment or provision. R.S., c. 87, s. 52.

**53.** Where, on the trial of an election
petition, it is proved that any corrupt or
illegal practice has been committed by or with
the actual knowledge and consent of a
candidate at an election, or where such
candidate is convicted before any competent
court of bribery or undue influence, he shall
be held guilty of corrupt or illegal practices,
and his election, if he has been elected, is
void. R.S., c. 87, s. 53.

**54.** Where, upon the trial of an election
petition, the trial judges report that a
candidate at such election was guilty by his
agent or agents of any offence that would
render his election void, and further find
  * (_a_) that no corrupt or illegal practice was
committed at such election by the candidate
personally or by his official agent and that
the offences mentioned in the report were
committed contrary to the order and without
the sanction or connivance of such candidate
or his official agent,
(6) that such candidate and his official
agent took all reasonable means for pre
venting the commission of corrupt and
illegal practices at such election,
  * (_c_) that the offences were of a trivial,
unimportant, and limited character, and
  * (_d_) that in all other respects the election
was free from any corrupt or illegal practice
on the part of such candidate and of his
agents,
then the election of such candidate is not, by
reason of the offences mentioned, void, nor
shall the candidate be subject to any
incapacity therefor. R.S., c. 87, s. 54.

**55.** Where, on application made in the
proceedings on an election petition or other
wise, it is shown to the court or to the trial
judges by sufficient evidence that any act or
omission of a candidate at an election, or of
his official agent, or of any other agent or
person, constitutes an illegal practice, but
  * (_a_) that such act or omission arose from
inadvertence or from accidental miscalcula
tion, or from some other reasonable cause
of a like nature, and in any case did not
arise from any want of good faith, and that
such notice of the application has been
given as to the court or trial judges seems
fit, and
  * (_b_) it seems to the court to be just that the
candidate, the official agent and the other
agent and person, or any of them, should
not be subject to any of the consequences
of the said act or omission,
the court or the trial judges may make order
and declaration accordingly, and thereupon
such candidate, agent or person is not subject
to any of the consequences of the said act or
omission. R.S., c. 87, s. 55.

**55.** Where, on the trial of an election
petition, a candidate is found by the report
of the trial judges, by himself or his agents,
with his actual knowledge and consent, to
have aided, abetted, counselled or procured
the commission at such election of the offence
of personation by any person, his election, if
he has been elected, shall be declared void.
R.S., c. 87, s. 56.

## JUDGES REPORT

**57.** (1) At the conclusion of the trial, the
trial judges shall determine whether the
whose election or return is complained
or any and what other person was duly
returned or elected, or whether the election
void, and other matters arising out of the
petition, and requiring their determination,
and shall, except in the case of appeal
hereinafter mentioned, within four days after
the expiration of eight days from the day on
which they shall so have given their decision,
certify in writing such determination to the
Speaker, appending thereto a copy of the
notes of evidence.
(2) The determination thus certified is final
to all intents and purposes. R.S., c. 87, s. 57.

**58.** (1) Every certificate and every report
sent to the Speaker in pursuance of this Act
shall be under the hands of both judges.
(2) Where the trial judges differ as to
whether the member whose return or election
is complained of was duly returned or elected,
they shall certify that difference, and the
member shall be deemed duly elected or
returned.
(3) Where the trial judges determine that
such member was not duly elected or returned,
but differ as to the rest of the determination,
they shall certify that difference, and the
election shall be deemed to be void.
(4) Where the trial judges differ as to the
subject of a report to the Speaker, they shall
certify that difference and make no report on
the subject on which they so differ. R.S., c.
87, s. 58.

**59.** When any charge is made in an election
, , ,.
-11 i &amp;gt; 
petition of any corrupt or illegal practice
having been committed at the election to
which the petition relates, the trial judges
shall, in addition to such certificate, and at
the same time, report in writing to the
Speaker,
  * (_a_) whether any corrupt or illegal practice
has or has not been proved to have been
committed by or with the knowledge and
consent of any candidate at such election,
stating the name of such candidate, and
the nature of such corrupt or illegal practice ;
(6) the names of any persons who have been
proved at the trial to have been guilty of
any corrupt or illegal practice ;
  * (_c_) whether corrupt or illegal practices have,
or whether there is reason to believe that
corrupt or illegal practices have, extensively
prevailed at the election to which the
petition relates ;
  * (_d_) whether they are of opinion that the
inquiry into the circumstances of the
election has been rendered incomplete by
the action of any of the parties to the
petition, and that further inquiry as to
whether corrupt or illegal practices have
extensively prevailed is desirable. R.S., c.
87, s. 59.

**60.** The trial judges may, at the same time,
make a special report to the Speaker as to
any matters arising in the course of the trial,
an account of which ought, in their judgment,
to be submitted to the House of Commons.
R.S., c. 87, s. 60.

**61.** Except where otherwise expressly pro
vided by this Act, any order, act, application
or thing for the purpose of this Act may be
made or done by, to or before a single judge.
R.S., c. 87, s. 61.
SPECIAL CASE

**62.** (1) When, upon the application of any
party to an election petition duly made to
the trial judges assigned to hear the petition,
it appears to such judges that the case raised
by the petition can be conveniently stated as
a special case, such trial judges may direct
the same to be so stated.
(2) Any such special case shall, as far as
possible, be heard before such judges, who
shall thereupon give such judgment as to
justice appertains ; and in case the decision is
final, the trial judges shall certify to the
Speaker their decision on such special case, in
the manner and within the time hereinbefore
provided in cases of election trials. R.S., c. 87,
s. 62.

## APPEALS

**63.** An appeal lies only after the final
decision of the court after the trial of an
election petition and if any party is dissatis
fied with such decision, an appeal lies to the
Supreme Court of Canada from the judgment
or decision on any question of law or of fact
of the judges who tried the petition. R.S., c.
87, s. 63.

**64.** The party so desiring to appeal shall,
within eight days from the day on which the
decision appealed from was given, deposit
with the clerk of the court with whom the
petition was lodged or with the proper officer
for receiving moneys paid into court, at the
place where the trial of the petition took
place, if in the Province of Quebec, and at
the office of the clerk of the court in which
the petition was presented, if in any other
province, the sum of three hundred dollars in
legal tender, as security for costs, and also a
further sum of ten dollars in legal tender, as
a fee for making up and transmitting the
record to the Supreme Court of Canada ; and
no other security is necessary. R.S., c. 87,
s. 64.

**65.** Upon such deposit being so made, the
clerk or other proper officer shall make up
and transmit the record of the case to the
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Canada,
who shall set down the appeal for hearing by
the Supreme Court of Canada at the nearest
convenient time, and according to the rules
of the Supreme Court of Canada in that
behalf. R.S., c. 87, s. 65.

**66.** (1) The party so appealing shall, within
three days after the appeal has been so set
down as aforesaid or within such other time
as the court or trial judges, by whom such
decision appealed from was given, allow, give
to the other parties to the petition affected
by such appeal, or the respective attorneys,
solicitors or agent by whom such parties were
represented at the trial of the petition, notice
in writing of the appeal having been so set
down for hearing as aforesaid and may in
such notice, if he so desires, limit the subject
of the appeal to any special and defined
question or questions.
(2) The appeal shall thereupon be heard
in the opinion of such Court ought to have
been given by the court or the trial judges
whose decision is appealed from ; and the
Supreme Court of Canada may make such
order as to the money deposited as aforesaid,
and as to the costs of the appeal as it thinks
just ; and, in case it appears to the Court that
any evidence duly tendered at the trial was
improperly rejected, the Court may cause the
witness to be examined before the Court or a
judge thereof, or upon commission. R.S., c.
87, s. 66.

**57.** Where an appeal, as provided by this
Act, is made to the Supreme Court of Canada
from the judgment or decision of the trial
judges, they shall make to the Supreme Court
of Canada the report and certificate with
respect to corrupt or illegal practices herein
before directed to be made, and may make
the special report as to any matters arising in
the course of the trial as hereinbefore provided,
and the same, together with the decision and
findings, if any, with respect to corrupt or
illegal practices by agents hereinbefore pro
vided for, shall form a part of the record in
the said matter to be transmitted to the
Supreme Court of Canada on such appeal.
R.S., c. 87, s. 67.

**68.** The Registrar shall certify to the
Speaker the judgment and decision of the
Supreme Court of Canada, confirming, chang
ing or annulling any decision, report or
finding of the trial judges upon the several
questions of law as well as of fact upon which
the appeal was made, and therein shall certify
as to the matters and things as to which the
trial judges would have been required to
report to the Speaker, whether they are
confirmed, annulled or changed, or left
unaffected by such decision of the Supreme
Court of Canada; and such decision is final.
R.S., c. 87, s. 68.

## PROCEEDINGS OF SPEAKER UPON JUDGES

## REPORT

**59.** The Speaker shall, at the earliest
practicable moment after he receives the
certificates and report or reports, if any, of
the trial judges or the Supreme Court of
Canada, give the necessary directions, and
adopt all the proceedings necessary for
confirming or altering the return, or, except
hereinafter mentioned, for the issuing of a
for a new election, for which purpose the
may address his warrant, under his
and seal, to the Chief Electoral Officer,
or for otherwise carrying the determination
into execution, as circumstances require. R.S.,
c. 87, s. 69.

**70.** The Speaker shall, without delay,
communicate to the House of Commons the
determination, report and certificate of the
trial judges or of the Supreme Court of
Canada and his own proceedings thereon;
and, when the trial judges or the Supreme
Court of Canada make a special report, the
House of Commons may make such order in
respect of such special report as they think
proper. R.S., c. 87, s. 70.

**71.** When the trial judges or the Supreme
Court of Canada in their report on the trial
of an election petition under this Act, state
that corrupt or illegal practices have, or that
there is reason to believe that corrupt or
illegal practices have extensively prevailed at
the election to which the petition relates, or
that they are of opinion that the inquiry into
the circumstances of the election has been
rendered incomplete by the action of any of
the parties to the petition, and that further
inquiry as to whether corrupt or illegal
practices have extensively prevailed is desir
able, no new writ shall issue for a new election
in such case except by order of the House of
Commons. R.S., c. 87, s. 71.
COSTS

**72.** (1) All costs, charges and expenses of
and incidental to the presentation of an
election petition under this Act, and to the
proceedings consequent thereon, with the
exception of such costs, charges and expenses
as are by this Act otherwise provided for,
shall be defrayed by the parties to or those
opposing the petition, in such manner and in
such proportions as the court or trial judges
determine, regard being had to the disallow
ance of any costs, charges or expenses that, in
the opinion of the court or trial judges, have
been caused by vexatious conduct, unfounded
allegations or unfounded objections, on the
part either of the petitioner or of the
respondent, and regard being had to the
discouragement of any needless expense by
throwing the burden of defraying such expense
on the parties by whom it has been caused,
whether such parties are or are not on the
whole successful.
(2) The costs may be taxed in the prescribed
manner, but according to the same principles
as costs are taxed between parties in actions
in the superior courts, and such costs are
recoverable in the same manner as the costs
in the said actions in the same province, or in
such other manner as is prescribed. R.S., c. 87,
s. 72.

**73.** (1) No greater counsel fee or fees shall
be taxed, as between party and party, in
respect of or in connection with the trial, if it
does not last longer than one day, than fifty
dollars, and, when the trial continues beyond
one day, a sum not exceeding forty dollars
for each additional day the trial continues,
whether one or more counsel are engaged at
the trial.
(2) Except as to such witness fees and other
actual disbursements, in respect of evidence
taxable in ordinary actions between party
and party, as are allowed by the judgment or
order of the court allowing or apportioning
costs, no greater sum, including counsel fees,
than three hundred dollars shall be taxed or
is taxable against either party as costs in the
cause. R.S., c. 87, s. 73.

**74.** (1) Where costs are awarded in favour
of any party against any petitioner, such
party, after the expiration of thirty days from
the rendering of the decision by the trial
judges, or, in case of an appeal, by the
Supreme Court of Canada, upon the produc
tion of a certificate of taxation from the
proper officer, is entitled to receive out of the
deposit the amount taxed to him as aforesaid,
if the aggregate of the costs taxed against the
petitioner, certificates whereof are within the
said period of thirty days filed with the
registrar, clerk or other proper officer, does
not exceed the deposit.
(2) Where the total amount of the certifi
cates so filed as aforesaid exceeds the deposit,
then such party is entitled to recover out of
deposit his proportion thereof.
(3) In the case mentioned in subsection (2),
party is entitled forthwith to issue
according to the practice in
ordinary cases, against the petitioner s goods
or lands, for the residue of the costs so taxed
to him as aforesaid. R.S., c. 87, s. 74.

**75.** In appeals under this Act to the
Supreme Court of Canada, the Supreme
Court may adjudge the whole or any part of
the costs in the court below to be paid by
either of the parties ; and any order directing
the payment of such costs shall be certified
by the Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Canada to the court in which the petition was
filed, and the same proceedings for the
recovery of such costs may thereupon be taken
in the last mentioned court as if the order for
payment of costs had been made by that
court or by the judges before whom the
petition was tried. R.S., c. 87, s. 75.

**76.** (1) Where, on the trial of an election
petition under this Act, it is proved that any
corrupt or illegal practice has been committed
by an agent of the candidate without his
knowledge or consent , or where it is determined
that the election is void by reason of any act
of an agent committed without the knowledge
and consent of the candidate, and the trial
judges are of opinion that costs should be
awarded to the petitioner or other party
alleging the corrupt or illegal practice, the
agent may be condemned to pay such costs.
(2) In such case the trial judges shall order
that the agent be summoned to appear at a
time fixed in the summons, in order to
determine whether the agent shall be con
demned to pay such costs.
(3) Where, at any time so fixed, the agent
so summoned does not appear, he shall be
judgment as to law and justice appertains.
(4) The party to receive the costs shall have
process to recover such costs against the agent
in like manner as he might have such process
against the respondent ; and no process shall
issue against the respondent to recover such
costs, nor shall the sum be paid out of any
money deposited as security until after the
return of process against the agent. R.S., c.
87, s. 76.

## WITHDRAWAL AND ABATEMENT OF ELECTION
PETITIONS

**77.** (1) No election petition under this Act
shall be withdrawn without the leave of the
court or trial judges, according as the petition
is then before the court or before the trial
judges, upon special application made in and
at the prescribed manner, time and place.
(2) No such application shall be made until
the prescribed notice has been given, in the
electoral district to which the petition relates,
of the intention of the petitioner to make an
application for the withdrawal of his petition.
(3) A petition shall not abate or be dismissed
or withdrawn upon the death, inability or
withdrawal of a petitioner.
(4) Upon any petitioner dying, becoming
incompetent or being authorized to withdraw,
notice shall be given by the clerk of the court
by public advertisement in one or more daily
or weekly newspapers published in or near
the electoral district to which the petition
relates, in at least two consecutive issues of
such newspapers, which advertisement may
be in Form E in the schedule.
(5) Another petitioner may be substituted
for the petitioner so dying, becoming incompe
tent or withdrawing, and such substitution
may be effected by filing in the court within
one month from the date of the last
publication of such advertisement, or within
such longer period as the court may prescribe,
a notice of substitution in Form D in the
(6) The security given on behalf of the
original petitioner shall remain as security
for any costs that may be awarded against
the petitioner or the substituted
(7) A substituted petitioner stands in the
same position as nearly as may be, and is
subject to the same liabilities as the original
petitioner.
(8) Where a petition is withdrawn, the
petitioner is liable to pay the costs of the
respondent, unless the court or trial judges
otherwise order, and when there are more
petitioners than one, no application to
withdraw a petition shall be made except with
the consent of all the petitioners. R.S., c. 87,
s. 77.

**78.** In every case of withdrawal of an
election petition under this Act, if the court
or trial judges are of opinion that the
withdrawal of such petition was the result of
any corrupt arrangement or in consideration
of the withdrawal of any other petition, the
court or trial judges shall report such opinion
to the Speaker, stating the reasons therefor
and the circumstances attending the with
drawal. R.S., c. 87, s. 78.

**79.** (1) Where, before or during the trial of
an election petition under this Act,
  * (_a_) the respondent dies,
  * (_fr_) the House of Commons resolves that
the respondent s seat is vacant,
  * (_c_) the respondent gives notice to the court
or trial judges in and at the prescribed
manner and time, that he does not intend
to oppose or further to oppose the petition,
or
  * (_d_) the respondent is summoned to Parlia
ment as a member of the Senate,
notice of such event shall be given in the
prescribed manner in the electoral district to
which the petition relates.
(2) Within the prescribed time after the
L . , i
notice is given, any person who might have
exceeding three, may be so admitted.
(3) Where either of such events happens
during the trial, the trial judges shall adjourn
the trial in order that notice that such event
has happened may be given as herein
provided; and the person so admitted is
subject to the same liability as the respondent
with respect to any costs thereafter incurred.
R.S., c. 87, s. 79.

**80.** Notwithstanding the abatement of a
petition by reason of the death of the
respondent, the court or trial judges may
make such order, not inconsistent with this
Act, for the payment of costs previously
incurred and for the payment out of court of
any moneys deposited as security for costs, as
to justice may appertain. R.S., c. 87, s. 80.

**81.** A respondent who has given the
prescribed notice that he does not intend to
oppose or further oppose the petition, shall
not be allowed to appear or act as a party
against such petition in any proceedings
thereon, and shall not sit or vote in the House
of Commons until the House has been
informed of the report on the petition; and
the court or trial judges shall, in all cases in
which such notice has been given in the
prescribed time and manner, report the same
to the Speaker. R.S., c. 87, s. 81.

**82.** When an election petition under this
Act complains of a double return, and the
respondent has given notice in the prescribed
time and manner that it is not his intention
to oppose the petition, and no party has been
admitted, in pursuance of this Act, to oppose
the petition, then the petitioner, if there is
no petition complaining of the other member
returned on such double return, may withdraw
his petition, by notice addressed to the
prescribed officer, and upon such withdrawal,
the prescribed officer shall report the fact to
the Speaker, and the House of Commons
shall, thereupon, give the necessary directions

## RULES OF COURT

**83.** (1) The judges of the court, or a
majority of them, may, from time to time,
make, revoke and alter general rules and
orders, for the effectual execution of this Act
and of the intention and object thereof, and
the regulation of the practice and procedure
and costs with respect to election petitions
and the trial thereof, and the certifying and
reporting thereon.
(2) Any general rules and orders made as
aforesaid, and not inconsistent with this Act,
shall be deemed to be within the powers
conferred by this Act, and are, while
unrevoked, of the same force as if they were
herein enacted ; and shall be laid before the
House of Commons within three weeks after
they are made, or if Parliament is not then
sitting, within three weeks after the beginning
of the next session of Parliament. R.S., c. 87,
s. 83.

**84.** Until rules of court have been made by
the judges of the court in any province in
pursuance of this Act, and so far as such rules
do not extend, the principles, practice and
rules on which election petitions concerning
the election of members of the House of
Commons in England were, on the 26th day
of May 1874, dealt with, shall be observed so
far as consistently with this Act they can be
observed by the court and the judges thereof.
R.S., c. 87, s. 84.

## GENERAL

**85.** The court, upon sufficient cause being
shown, has power, on the application of any
of the parties to a petition, to extend, from
time to time, the period limited by this Act,
for taking any steps or proceedings by such
party. R.S., c. 87, s. 85.

**86.** The travelling expenses of the trial
be defrayed in like manner as ordinary
travelling expenses of a judge in the province
payable by Canada. R.S., c. 87, s. 86.

**87.** Every person who, according to the law
of the province in which the petition is to be
tried, is entitled to practise as an attorney-at-
law or solicitor, before the superior courts of
such province, may practise as attorney,
solicitor or agent, and any person who,
according to such law, is entitled to practise
as a barrister-at-law or advocate before such
courts, may practise as counsel, in the case of
such petition, and all matters relating thereto,
before the court or trial judges in such
province. R.S., c. 87, s. 87.

**88.** An election petition may be presented,
and the trial of an election petition under
this Act shall be proceeded with, notwith
standing the acceptance by the respondent of
an office of profit under the Crown, or the
resignation of his seat, but the respondent
may, notwithstanding anything in this or any
other Act contained, accept office at any time
after the election, subject to the House of
Commons Act. R.S., c. 87, s. 88.

**89.** All elections are subject to this Act,
and shall not be questioned otherwise than in
accordance herewith. R.S., c. 87, s. 89.

## SUMMARY TRIAL OF CORRUPT OR ILLEGAL

## PRACTICES AT ELECTIONS

**90.** (1) Where, on the trial of an election
petition relating to the election of a member
of the House of Commons, it is determined
that any person has been guilty of a corrupt
or illegal practice, within the meaning of this
Act, or where, on such trial, there is in the
opinion of the trial judges sufficient evidence
available that any person has been guilty of
such corrupt or illegal practice as aforesaid to
warrant his being put on his trial, the trial
judges shall order that such person be
summoned to appear at a time and place to
be fixed in such summons in order to be
summarily tried for the offence, which shall
be specified in the summons.
(2) The time so fixed shall not be more
than thirty days from the date of the
summons, and the place shall be the nearest
convenient court house or other available
room. R.S., c. 87, s. 90.

**91.** (1) The trial judges may, by recogni
zance, bind such person to appear at the said
time and place to be tried, and may, by
recognizance, bind any person whom they
consider necessary to be examined concerning
the matter, to attend at the said time and
place, and give evidence upon the trial.
(2) Any such recognizance shall be of the
same effect, and any forfeiture thereof shall
be enforced in the like manner, and any
refusal to enter into the same shall entail the
same consequences, as if the recognizance had
been given or required in any of the superior
courts having criminal jurisdiction within the
province in which the election was held. R.S.,
c. 87, s. 91.

**92.** No such summons, in respect of a
corrupt or illegal practice, shall be issued or
prosecuted if it appears to the trial judges
that a criminal prosecution for the same
matter against the same person has been tried
before the issue of the summons. R.S., c. 87,
s. 92.

**93.** Upon the issue of any such summons,
any criminal prosecution pending in any
other court in respect of the same matter shall
be stayed. R.S., c. 87, s. 93.

**94.** The trial judges shall, forthwith after
the issue of such summons report to the
Secretary of the province in which the election
was held, for the information of the Lieutenant
Governor, and also to the Secretary of State
of Canada, for the information of the
Governor General, the fact of the issuing
thereof. R.S., c. 87, s. 94.

**95.** The county attorney, or other officer
on whom, in case the person had been charged
with an indictable offence, the like duty
would have devolved, shall subpoena to
attend at the trial such of the witnesses who,
the trial of the election petition, deposed
any facts material to the charge, as the
judges may deem necessary or desirable
to have subpoenaed, and such other witnesses
he thinks requisite to prove the charge.
R.S., c. 87, s. 95.

**96.** The Attorney General of Canada shall
instruct counsel to assist the local authorities
in the due prosecution of the accused. R.S., c.
87, s. 96.

**97.** Where the accused, being duly served
a reasonable time before the time fixed for
the trial, or being bound by recognizance to
appear to be tried, fails to appear at the time
and place fixed for the trial, the trial may be
proceeded with in his absence. U.S., c. 87,
s. 97.

**98.** One of the trial judges, or, if neither
of them is able to attend, then, at the request
of the trial judges or one of them, some judge
competent under this Act to sit on the trial of
an election petition for any district of the
province within which the electoral district in
question is situated or one of the judges of a
superior court having criminal jurisdiction
within such province, shall, without a jury
and in a summary manner, try the accused,
and shall, after hearing the counsel for the
prosecution and also, if the accused is present,
such accused or his counsel, and also such
evidence as is adduced on either side, give
such judgment as to law and justice appertains.
R.S., c. 87,8.98.

**99.** The judge trying the accused shall be
received and attended at the trial in the same
manner, as far as circumstances admit, as if a
sitting were being held of the provincial court
of which he is a member. R.S., c. 87, s. 99.

**100.** The travelling expenses of the judge
trying the accused and any expenses neces
sarily incurred by the sheriff or other officer
in connection with the trial, shall be defrayed
out of any moneys provided by Parliament
for the purpose. R.S., c. 87, s. 100.

**101.** The judge trying the accused is, for
all the purposes of the trial and the
connected therewith, or relating
thereto, a court of record, and, subject to this
Act, has the same powers, jurisdiction and
authority as a judge sitting in any superior
court having criminal jurisdiction within the
province ; and the record of any such case
shall be filed in the same manner as
indictments among and as a part of the
records of such superior court. U.S., c. 87,
s. 101.

**102.** Witnesses shall be summoned or
subpoenaed and sworn in the same manner,
as nearly as circumstances admit, as in cases
in a superior court having criminal jurisdiction
within the province. R.S., c. 87, s. 102.

**103.** Any witness, summoned or subpoe
naed to attend and give evidence at the trial,
whether for or against the accused, shall be
bound to attend, and remain in attendance
throughout the whole trial ; and if he fails so
to do he shall be held guilty of contempt of
court and may be proceeded against therefor
accordingly. R.S., c. 87, s. 103.

**104.** (1) Upon proof to the satisfaction of
the summary trial court of the service of the
subpoena upon any witness who fails to
attend, and that the presence of such witness
is material to the ends of justice, the summary
trial court may, by its warrant, cause such
witness to be apprehended and forthwith
brought before it to give evidence and to
answer for his disregard of the subpoena ; and
such witness may be detained on such warrant
before the summary trial court or in the
common gaol with a view to secure his
presence as a witness, or in the discretion of
the summary trial court he may be released
on a recognizance with or without sureties
conditioned for his appearance to give
evidence and to answer for his default in not
attending as for a contempt.
(2) The summary trial court may, in a
summary manner examine into and dispose
of the charge of contempt against such witness,
who, if found guilty thereof, is liable to a fine
not exceeding one hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety
days, with or without hard labour, or to both.
R.S., c. 87, s. 104.
to the penalty elsewhere expressly provided
for such offence, if any, or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three months, with
or without hard labour, and to a fine not
exceeding two hundred dollars, and to pay
the costs of the prosecution, which shall be
taxed by the proper officer under the direction
of the summary trial court, and if the fine
and costs are not paid before the expiration
of the said term, then to imprisonment for
such further time as they remain unpaid not
exceeding three months. R.S., c. 87, s. 105.

**106.** All fines recovered under this Act
belong to Her Majesty for the public uses of
Canada. R.S., c. 87, s. 106.

**107.** No person tried under this Act for
any corrupt or illegal practice is subject to be
otherwise criminally prosecuted in respect of
the same matter; but nothing in this section
contained affects any disqualification
imposed on such person under the operation
of any statute. R.S., c. 87, s. 107.

## SCRUTINY IN PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

**108.** In the Province of Prince Edward
Island a petition under this Act complaining
of an undue or improper election or return of
any candidate may, if presented not later
than twenty days after the day of publication
in the Canada Gazette of the receipt of the
return to the writ of election by the Chief
Electoral Officer, be limited to a demand for
a scrutiny of the votes polled at such election
and which have been marked "objected to";
and in case such petition is so limited no
other questions as to the undue return shall,
in the proceedings under such petition for a
scrutiny, be entered upon, excepting the
scrutiny and determination of the validity of
such objected votes properly brought before
the court for its determination. R.S., c. 87,

**108.**

**109.** The judges of the court in Prince
Edward Island, or a majority of them, may
make all such, rules and regulations as may
be necessary to carry out effectually the
provisions for a scrutiny and to ensure a
proper scrutiny of all objected votes polled
for any candidate at the election, properly
brought before them for scrutiny and adjudi
cation, and to this end may prescribe the
times within which the names of the voters
whose votes have been challenged and objected
to shall be given by the petitioner to the
candidate declared elected and by the latter
to the petitioner, and such other particulars
as they deem proper for the trial and
determination of such scrutiny. R.S., c. 87,
s. 109.
1 10. At the close of such scrutiny the trial
judges shall confirm or amend the return of
the returning officer as they adjudge and
determine, and declare which candidate has
been duly elected ; and such confirmation or
amended return shall be certified by them to
the Chief Electoral Officer, or to the Speaker
of the House of Commons, and shall take the
place of, and be substituted for, the return of
the returning officer; and such trial judges
shall make such order as to the costs as they
think proper. R.S., c. 87, s. 110.

**111.** The filing of such limited petition
for a scrutiny in no way affects or prejudices
the right of any voter to file and prosecute
any other election petition on any other
ground under this Act. R.S., c. 87, s. 111.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
(Form of Affidavit on Production of Books and Papers.)
IN THE (name of court)
Election for holden on the day of
A.D.
I, of make oath and say:

**1.** That I have in my possession or power the documents
relating to the matters in question set forth in the first and
second parts of the first schedule hereto annexed.

**2.** I object to produce the said documents set forth in the
second part of the said first schedule.

**3.** (State upon what grounds objection is made, and verify
the facts as far as may be).

**4.** I have had, but have not now, in my possession or power
the documents relating to the matters in question set forth in
the second schedule hereto annexed.

**5.** The last mentioned documents were last in my possession
or power on (state when).

**6.** (State what has become of the last mentioned documents,
to whom they have been given, and in whose possession they
now are).

**7.** According to the best of my knowledge, remembrance,
information and belief, I have not now, and never had in my
own possession, custody or power, or in the possession, custody
or power of my agents or attorneys, agent or attorney, or in the
possession, custody or power of any other person on my behalf,
any deed, account, book of accounts, minutes, voucher, receipt,
letter, memorandum, paper or writing, or any copy of or
extract from any such document or other document whatever,
relating to the matters in question, or any of them, or wherein
any entry has been made relative to such matters, or any of
them, other than and except the documents set forth in the first
and second schedule hereto annexed.
Sworn, etc.
(Annex the schedules mentioning the documents in question.)

## FORM B
In the (name of court)
Election for holden on the day of
A.D. The petition of humbly submits:

**1.** That your petitioner was (a duly qualified voter or a
candidate, as the case may be) at the above election.

**2.** That at the said election were candidates, and
the returning officer was

**3.** That (here state the grounds on which the petitioner
relies, and, in case illegal or corrupt acts are alleged the par
ticulars of such acts, as prescribed by section 9).
Wherefore your petitioner prays that it may be deter
mined (that was duly elected or returned or that
ought to have been returned or that the election is
void, as the case may be).
Dated at this *. day of A.D.
(Signature of petitioner)
Petitioner
The address to which papers may be sent for service upon
the petitioner is

## FORM C
In the (name of court)
Election for holden on the day of
A.D.
The petition of of humbly submits:

**1.** That at the above election ...was returned and
duly elected.

**2.** That a petition has been presented to this Honourable
Court praying that....

**3.** That was guilty of (here state the particulars
of the unlawful and corrupt acts complained oj, as prescribed
by section 10).
Wherefore your petitioner prays that the said unlawful and
corrupt acts may be inquired into and reported by this
Honourable Court.
Dated at this day of ..A.D.
(Signature of sitting Member)
Petitioner
The address to which papers may be sent for service upon
the petitioner is

## FORM D
In the (name oj court)
In the matter of the election for holden on the
day of A.D and the peti-
tion of filed in this Honourable Court.
having (withdrawn, died, or as the case may be).
I, of desire to be substituted as
petitioner in his place and stead.
Dated at this day of.... A.D.

## FORM E
In the (name of court)
Election for holden on the day of
A.D.
(here insert name of petitioner) the petitioner
praying that (here insert prayer of petition) having (with
drawn, died or become incapable of proceeding with the peti
tion or as the case may be) this is to give notice that any
person desiring to be substituted as petitioner in the room and
