
# CHAPTER C-29
Act respecting cooperative credit associa-
tions

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Cooperative
Credit Associations Act. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"association" means a cooperative credit
society incorporated by Special Act ;
"cooperative credit society" means a cooper
ative organization the objects of which
include the making of loans to, and the
receiving of deposits from, its members ;
"Department" means the Department of
Insurance ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance;
"Special Act" means an Act of the Parliament
of Canada incorporating a cooperative
credit society ;
"Superintendent" means the Superintendent
of Insurance. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 2.
APPLICATION

**3.** Unless otherwise expressly provided in
the Special Act, this Act applies to every
credit society incorporated by
Special Act. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 3.
Membership

**4.** (1) Membership in an association shall
be confined to
  * (_a_) cooperative credit societies incorporated
by Special Act ;
(6) any cooperative credit society declared
by Parliament or by the Governor in
Council to be eligible to become a member
of an association ;
  * (_c_) not more than ten cooperative corpora
tions (not being cooperative credit societies)
carrying on business in two or more
provinces ; and
  * (_d_) not more than fifteen natural persons.
(2) No association shall be a member of any
of its incorporated members. 1952-53, c. 28, s.
4; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 1.
Special Act

**5.** (1) The capital stock of every associa
tion, the amount thereof that shall be
subscribed and paid before the association
may commence business, its name, the place
where its head office is to be situated, and
the name, place of residence and occupation
of each of the provisional directors shall be
declared in the Special Act incorporating the
association.
(2) Notwithstanding any declaration of the
capital stock of an association, its name or
the location of its head office in its Special
Act, the association may, with the consent of
the Minister of Finance, apply to the Minister
of Consumer and Corporate Affairs for, and
that Minister may from time to time issue,
letters patent altering the capital stock of the
association, its name or the location of its
head office.
(3) Upon the issue of letters patent under
subsection (2), the provisions of the Special
Act of the association relating to its capital
stock, its name or the location of its head
office are replaced by the provisions for the
time being of the letters patent in that regard.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 5; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 2.
Objects and Powers

**6.** Every association is a body corporate
capable of exercising all the functions of an
incorporated company, and having all the
powers, privileges and immunities set forth in
this Act. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 6.

**7.** Every association is subject to all the
limitations, liabilities and provisions set forth
in this Part and in Parts II and III. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The objects and powers of an associa
tion are :
  * (_a_) to receive money on deposit from its
members upon such terms as to interest and
time of repayment as may be agreed upon ;
(6) to lend money to its members upon such
terms as to interest, security, and time of
repayment as may be agreed upon ;
  * (_c_) to borrow or raise money upon such
terms as to interest, security and time of
repayment as may be agreed upon ;
  * (_d_) to deposit money in chartered banks in
Canada or with an association of which it
is a member ; and
  * (_e_) to invest in
  * (_i_) the bonds, debentures or other securi
ties of or guaranteed by the Government
of Canada, the government of any
province of Canada or any municipal
corporation in Canada,
  * (_ii_) the bonds, debentures or other securi
ties of any school corporation in Canada,
or
  * (_iii_) corporate securities or shares to the
extent of not more than ten per cent of
the aggregate of the paid-up capital of
the association and the total amount of
money on deposit with the association,
with the approval of at least two-thirds
of the membership of the board of
directors.
(2) An association, for the purpose of
exercising the powers conferred by subsection
(1), and as ancillary and incidental thereto,
has the following powers :
  * (_a_) to charge, hypothecate, mortgage or
real or personal property of any kind as
may be deemed expedient for the purpose
of securing the repayment of any money
lent by or owing to the association;
  * (_c_) to sell, pledge or mortgage any real or
personal property or other security held by
the association and to make and execute all
requisite conveyances, assignments, trans
fers and assurances in respect thereof ;
  * (_d_) subject to subsection 4(2), to become a
member of any cooperative credit society
incorporated by or under any Act of the
Parliament of Canada;
  * (_e_) to acquire and hold any real or personal
property necessary for its actual use and
occupation and the management of its
business and to acquire, for the protection
of its loans and investments, any real or
personal property mortgaged or hypothecat
ed to the association, and to sell, mortgage,
lease or otherwise dispose of such property;
  * (_j_) to draw, make, accept, endorse, discount,
execute and issue promissory notes, bills of
exchange, bills of lading, warrants and
other negotiable or transferable instru
ments ;
  * (_g_) to pay out of the funds of the association
all or any of the expenses of or incidental
to the formation and organization thereof;
and
  * (_h_) to do all such other things as are
incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the objects and the exercise of the powers
of the association. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 8; 1968-
69, c. 31,s.3.

**9.** Notwithstanding anything in section 8,
  * (_a_) no association has the power to make a
loan upon the security of a mortgage on
real property owned by the borrower,
(6) no association shall make a loan to or
undertake any guarantee on behalf of any
cooperative credit society unless the society
holds a valid and subsisting certificate
issued under section 19 or 81, and
  * (_c_) no association shall make a loan to, or
accept a deposit from, any natural person.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 9.

**10.** (1) An association has the power, with
the permission of the Minister, to make an
agreement
  * (_a_) to purchase and take over all or any
portion of the business and property (being
business that the association is authorized
to transact and property that the association
is authorized to hold) of any cooperative
credit society that has the power so to
dispose of its business and property, and
(6) to sell or transfer all or any portion of
its business and property to any organiza
tion that is authorized to transact such
business and hold such property,
and to enter into all agreements and under
takings necessary thereunto, but no agreement
made under this section is effective until it is
approved by the Minister.
(2) When any agreement has been entered
into under this section, the directors of the
association may apply to the Minister to
approve the agreement, and the Board, after
hearing the directors and other persons whom
it considers entitled to be heard upon the
application or giving them an opportunity to
be heard, may approve the agreement if the
Board is satisfied that no sufficient objection
to the agreement has been established. 1952-
53, c. 28, s. 10; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 17.
Directors

**11.** (1) The affairs of an association shall
be managed by a board of not less than five
and not more than twelve directors as the
association may determine by by-law.
(2) A majority of the directors constitutes a
quorum.
(3) All directors shall be Canadian citizens
resident in Canada.
(4) No director shall be appointed or elected
for a term of more than three years, but a
retiring director is eligible for re-appointment
or re-election. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 11.
Provisional Directors

**12.** (1) The persons named as such in the
Special Act are the first or provisional
directors of the association, and hold office
until replaced by directors duly appointed or
elected in their stead.
(2) The number of provisional directors
shall not be less than five, a majority of whom
constitutes a quorum.
(3) The provisional directors may open
stock books, procure subscriptions for stock,
make calls in respect of stock not fully paid
up and do generally whatever may be
necessary to organize the association. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 12.
Organization Meeting

**13.** (1) When the provisions of the Special
Act relating to subscription and payment for
stock have been complied with, the provisional
directors may call a meeting of the subscribers
to be held at the head office of the association
at the time and place set forth in the notice.
(2) A subscriber, other than a natural
person, may be represented at the meeting by
a person appointed by resolution of the board
of directors of that subscriber.
(3) Each subscriber and each provisional
director is entitled to one vote.
(4) The subscribers and the provisional
directors shall at the meeting
  * (_a_) determine the day upon which the
annual general meeting of the association
is to be held ;
  * (_b_) elect or appoint such number of directors
not less than five or more than twelve as
they think necessary to hold office until
the annual general meeting next following
their election or appointment ;
  * (_c_) provide for the method of filling
vacancies in the board of directors until the
annual general meeting ;
  * (_d_) adopt such by-laws as are necessary to
enable the association to commence busi-
ness ; and
  * (_e_) appoint an auditor and fix his remuner
ation.
(5) Upon the election or appointment of
in accordance with this section the
functions of the provisional directors cease.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 13.
Officers

**14.** (1) The directors, as soon as practicable
after their election or appointment, shall from
among themselves elect by ballot a president,
who shall be chairman of the board of
directors, and one or more than one vice-
president.
(2) If the number of directors is more than
six, the association may by by-law provide
for the election from among the directors of
an executive committee of not fewer than
three members.
(3) The executive committee may fix its
quorum at not less than a majority of its
members and may, subject to any restriction
in its constating by-law or in regulations
made by the directors and, subject to
subsection (4), exercise such of the powers of
the directors as are delegated to it by that by
law.
(4) The executive committee may not
exercise any of the powers conferred on the
directors by sections 24, 27, 28, 50 and 51.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The president or a vice-president
shall preside at meetings of the board, but if
none of such officers is present at any meeting
of the board, a chairman elected by the
directors present shall preside at the meeting.
(2) The president, or in his absence a vice-
president, shall preside at all general meetings
of the association, but if none of such officers
is present at any such meeting, a chairman
elected by the members and duly authorized
delegates present at the meeting shall preside.
(3) The person presiding may vote as a
director at meetings of the board and as a
member or delegate, as the case may be, at
meetings of the association, and in case of an
equality of votes at any meeting he has a
casting vote 1952-53, c. 28, s. 15.

**16.** (1) If a vacancy occurs in the office of
president or vice-president, the directors shall
from among themselves elect a president or
vice-president, as the case may be, to continue
in office until the next election or appointment
of directors.
(2) If at any time, an election or appoint
ment of directors is not made or does not take
effect at the proper time, the association is
not thereby dissolved, but such election or
appointment may take place at any general
meeting of the association duly called for
that purpose, and the retiring directors
continue in office until their successors are
elected or appointed. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 16.

**17.** The directors may establish branch
offices and local advisory boards at such times
and in such manner as they deem expedient.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 17.

**18.** The directors may in all things admin
ister the affairs of the association and may
make or cause to be made for the association
any description of contract that the association
may by law enter into 1952-53, c. 28, s. 18.
Certificate

**19.** (1) An association shall not accept
money on deposit or lend money or otherwise
carry on business by exercising any of the
powers set forth in section 8 until the Minister
has granted it a certificate authorizing it to
do so, and no such certificate shall be granted
until the Minister has been satisfied by
affidavit or otherwise that
  * (_a_) the board of directors has been duly
elected or appointed ;
(6) the provisions of the Special Act relating
to subscription and payment for stock have
been complied with ;
  * (_c_) all requirements of this Act antecedent
to the granting of a certificate have been
complied with ; and
  * (_d_) the expenses of incorporation and
organization are reasonable.
(2) The particulars of all liabilities of the
association shall be disclosed to the Minister
at the time the association makes application
for a certificate.
(3) If a certificate under this section has
not been granted within two years after the
passing of the Act of incorporation of the
association, or within such extended period
not exceeding one year as the Governor in
Council before the expiration of such two
years allows, that Act thereupon ceases to be
in force, except for the purpose of winding up
the affairs of the association and returning to
subscribers the amount paid by them upon
the stock subscribed or so much thereof as
they may be entitled to.
(4) Notice of the granting of a certificate
by the Minister authorizing an association to
commence business shall be published by the
association in the Canada Gazette and in at
least one newspaper in the city or place where
the head office of the association is situated,
and such publication shall be continued for a
period of four weeks.
(5) Any certificate granted by the Minister
may contain, or may be amended to include,
any limitations or conditions that the Minister
may deem necessary or advisable. 1952-53, c.
28,s. 19; 1968-69, c. 31,s. 17.
Delegates

**20.** An association may by by-law provide
that the membership rights of an incorporated
member of the association shall be vested in
one or more delegates to be elected or
appointed by the member in such manner as
may be provided for in the by-laws, and the
delegates so elected or appointed may exercise
all or any of such rights. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 20.
Meetings

**21.** (1) An association shall hold at least
one general meeting in each calendar year.
(2) At meetings of the association each
delegate is entitled to the same number of
votes as any other delegate irrespective of the
number of members or shares represented by
him.
(3) NO delegate and no member shall vote
by proxy at any meeting of the association.
(4) All general meetings of an association
be held in Canada. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 21.
By-laws

**22.** (1) Subject to this section, an associa-
tion may at any annual general meeting, or
any special general meeting called for the
purpose, enact all necessary by-laws not
contrary to law or to this Act or the Special
Act as may be deemed necessary or advisable,
and such by-laws may be added to, amended
or repealed and others substituted therefor at
any annual general meeting of the association
or at any special general meeting of the
association called for the purpose.
(2) Any enactment, amendment, repeal or
substitution may be made
  * (_a_) with the approval of two-thirds of the
delegates and members who are entitled to
and do vote, or
(6) if written notice of the proposed enact
ment, amendment, repeal or substitution is
forwarded to each member with the notice
of the meeting at which such enactment,
amendment, repeal or substitution is to be
considered, with the approval of a majority
of delegates and members who are entitled
to and do vote.
(3) Without limiting the generality of the
power conferred by subsection (1), the associa
tion may enact by-laws to provide
  * (_a_) for the method of appointing or electing
delegates by members, the qualifications of
such delegates and determining the number
of such delegates for each member or group
of members ;
(6) for the division into regions or districts
of the territory in which the association
carries on business ;
  * (_c_) for meetings of delegates to be held by
regions or districts for purposes specified in
the by-laws and for the election or appoint
ment of directors from regions or districts
or groups of regions or districts by the
delegates ;
  * (_d_) for methods of appointing directors or
of making nominations and holding elec
counting ballots and any other matter or
thing relating to the conduct of elections of
directors ;
  * (_e_) for the qualifications and tenure of
office of directors ;
(/) for the remuneration and payment of
the expenses of delegates and directors in
connection with the business of the associa
tion and the meetings of the association
and of the directors ;
  * (_g_) for the removal and dismissal of directors
at meetings of the association ;
  * (_h_) for the filling of vacancies occurring on
the board of directors ;
  * (_i_) for the time and place for the holding
of meetings of the association and of the
board of directors, the calling of such
meetings, the quorum at such meetings, and
the procedure in all things at such meetings ;
0) for the allotment of shares, the making
of calls thereon, the payment thereof, the
issue and registration of certificates of
shares, forfeiture of shares for non-payment
and the disposal of forfeited shares and the
proceeds thereof;
(A:) for the appointment, functions, duties
and removal of all officials and servants of
the association, and their remuneration,
and the security, if any, to be given by
them to the association ;
(0 for the appointment of a credit commit
tee with such duties, powers and functions
and governed by such procedure as the by
laws may prescribe ;
  * (_m_) for the appointment of other commit
tees by the board of directors with such
powers, functions and duties and governed
by such procedure as the by-laws may
prescribe ;
  * (_ri_) for the payment of interest on paid-up
share capital at such rate as may be
determined by the directors ; and
  * (_o_) for the conduct in all other particulars
of the affairs of the association. 1952-53, c.
28,s.22; 1968-69, c. 31,s.4.

**23.** Every by-law binds the association and
and as if there were in the by-law a covenant
on the part of each member, and the successor
and assigns of the member, to conform thereto,
subject to this Act and the Special Act. 1952-
53, c. 28, s. 23.

**24.** (1) The directors may make by-laws
not contrary to law or to this Act or the
Special Act or to any by-laws duly passed or
confirmed at a general meeting of the
association.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), a by-law made
under subsection (1) ceases to be in force at
the date of the next following annual general
meeting unless it is confirmed at that meeting.
(3) Where a special general meeting, called
for the purpose of confirming a by-law made
under subsection (1) or called for that and
any other purpose, is held before the next
following annual general meeting, the by-law
ceases to be in force at the date of the special
general meeting unless it is confirmed at that
special general meeting, and subsection (2)
does not apply to a by-law that is so
confirmed. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 24.

**25.** No by-law is effective until a certified
copy thereof is filed with the Superintendent.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 25.
Capital Stock

**26.** (1) The shares in the capital stock of
an association are transferable in such manner
and subject to such conditions and restrictions
as are prescribed by this Act or the Special
Act or by the by-laws of the association.
(2) No transfer, sale, assignment or charge
on the capital stock of an association is valid
unless and until authorized by the board of
directors, subject to such conditions as may
be set forth in the by-laws.
(3) An association may redeem any or all
shares of its capital stock held by a member
upon payment of an amount to be agreed
upon by the association and the member, not
the actual value of such shares or
amount paid thereon, whichever is the
lesser, and subject to such conditions as may
be set forth in the by-laws.
(4) An association, whenever any member
is about to be wound up, dissolved or have its
charter surrendered, has the right at its option
to redeem the shares held by such member at
the actual value thereof or the amount paid
thereon, whichever is the lesser.
(5) Not more than ten per cent of the issued
shares of an association may be redeemed
pursuant to this section in any financial year
and no such redemption shall be made when
the association is insolvent or so as to reduce
the number of members to less than five or to
reduce the amount of capital below the
amount prescribed in the Special Act as
necessary to commence business. 1952-53, c.
28, s. 26.
CalU

**27.** (1) The directors of an association may,
as they deem necessary but not contrary to
any by-law, call in and demand from the
members thereof, all sums of money subscribed
by them at such times and places and in such
instalments as the directors may determine.
(2) Interest shall accrue and fall due, at the
rate of six per cent per annum, upon the
amount of any unpaid call, from the day
appointed for payment of such call. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 27.

**28.** If, after the giving of such demand or
notice as the by-laws of an association
prescribe, any call made upon any share or
shares is not paid within the time prescribed
by by-law, the directors, in their discretion,
by resolution to that effect, reciting the facts
and duly recorded in their minutes, may
summarily declare forfeited any shares where
on such call is not paid, and such shares
thereupon become the property of the associa
tion, and may be disposed of as is prescribed
by by-law. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 28.
Books

**29.** (1) An association shall cause a book
or books to be kept by the secretary, or by
other officer specially charged with that
duty, wherein shall be kept recorded
  * (_a_) the names, alphabetically arranged, of
all persons who are or have been members ;
(6) the address of every such person, while
a member ;
  * (_c_) the number of shares held by each
member ;
  * (_d_) the amounts paid in, and the amounts
remaining unpaid, on the shares of each
member;
  * (_e_) all transfers of shares in their order as
presented to the association for entry, with
the date and other particulars of each
transfer, and the date of the entry thereof;
and
  * (_f_) the names, addresses and occupations of
all persons who are directors of the
association, and the names of all persons
who have been directors, with the several
dates at which each became or ceased to be
a director.
(2) Such books shall, during reasonable
business hours of every business day of the
association, be kept open for the inspection
of members and creditors of the association,
and their representatives, at the head office
or chief place of business of the association,
and every member, creditor or representative
may make extracts therefrom.
(3) An association shall, within fifteen days
after any member becomes registered on its
books, submit to the Superintendent
  * (_a_) a notice of the registration giving the
date thereof, and the name and principal
place of business or address of the member,
the number of shares subscribed for and the
amount paid thereon, and
(6) if the member is a cooperative credit
society,
  * (_i_) a statement, certified by an auditor
date of the registration, and
  * (_ii_) a copy of the constitution and by
laws of the member. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 29;
1968-69, c. 31,s.5.
Liability of Members

**30.** (1) Every member is, until the whole
amount of the shares in the capital stock of
the association subscribed for by the member
has been paid, individually liable to the
creditors of the association to an amount
equal to the amount subscribed but not paid
thereon ; but a member is not liable to an
action therefor by any creditor until an
execution against the association at the suit
of the creditor has been returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part.
(2) The amount due on such execution, not
exceeding the amount unpaid on the member s
shares, is the amount recoverable with costs
from such member.
(3) A member of an association is not, as
such, responsible for any act, default or
liability of the association, or for any
engagement, claim, payment, loss, injury,
transaction, matter or thing relating to or
connected with the association, beyond the
amount unpaid on the member s shares in the
capital stock of the association. 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 30.
Meetings and Voting
3 1. No member who is in arrears in respect
of any call shall vote at any meeting of the
association. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 31.

**32.** In the absence of other provisions in
that behalf in the Special Act or the by-laws
of an association, notice of the time and place
for holding general meetings of the association
shall be given at least ten days prior thereto,
in some newspaper published at the place in
which the chief place of business of the
association is situated, or if there is no
newspaper there published, then in a newspa
per published at the place nearest thereto.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 32.

**33.** Members who together hold not less
than one quarter in value of the subscribed
of an association may, at any time, by
requisition call a special general
of the association for the transaction
any business specified in such requisition,
and in the notice calling such meeting. 1952-
53, c. 28, s. 33.
Procedure

**34.** An association may enforce payment
of all calls on shares and interest thereon, by
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 34.

**35.** (1) Service of any process or notice
upon an association may be made by leaving
a copy thereof at the chief place of business
of the association, with any adult person in
charge thereof, or elsewhere with the president
or secretary of the association.
(2) If an association has no known office or
chief place of business, and has no known
president or secretary, the court may order
such publication as it deems requisite to be
made in the circumstances, for at least one
month, in at least one newspaper.
(3) Publication in accordance with this
section shall be deemed to be due service
upon the association. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 35.

**36.** Any description of action may be
prosecuted and maintained between an
association and any member thereof. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 36.

**37.** An association is subject to the provi
sions of any general Act for the winding-up
of joint stock companies. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 37.
Evidence

**38.** A copy of any by-law of an association,
under its seal and purporting to be signed by
any officer of the association, shall be received
in evidence as prima facie proof of such by
law in all courts in Canada. 1952-53, c. 28, s.

**38.**

**39.** All books required by this Part to be
kept by the secretary or by any other officer
of the association charged with that duty are,
any suit or proceeding against the
association or against any member, evidence
of all facts purporting to be therein stated.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 39.

**40.** In any action by an association to
enforce payment of any call or interest
thereon, a certificate under the seal of the
association and purporting to be signed by
any officer of the association to the effect
that the defendant is a member, that the call
has been made, and setting forth the amount
that is due and unpaid thereon, shall be
received in evidence as pnma facie proof in
all courts in Canada. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 40.
Offences and Penalties

**41.** Any director who authorizes payment
of, or any manager or other officer or servant
of an association who pays or causes to be
paid, any money for or on account of the
incorporation or organization expenses of the
association after the certificate permitting the
association to commence business has been
granted by the Minister, except and unless
the liability so paid has been disclosed to the
Minister at the time of the application for
such certificate, is guilty of an indictable
offence and liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 41 ;
1968-69, c. 31,s.l7.

**42.** Every director, officer and servant of
an association, who, on the application of any
member or creditor of the association or of
the representatives of any such member or
creditor or of any judgment creditor of a
member, refuses or neglects to produce any of
the books mentioned in section 29 within his
power or control, or who refuses or neglects to
allow any of such books to be inspected and
extracts to be taken therefrom, during reason
able business hours of any business day of the
association, is guilty of an offence and liable
on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
fifty dollars. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 42.

# PARTH

## LIMITATIONS, RESTRICTIONS, AUDIT

## AND SUPERVISION
Interpretation

**43.** In this Part
"government securities" means bonds, deben
tures or other securities of or guaranteed by
the Government of Canada or the govern
ment of any province of Canada ;
"municipal securities" means bonds, deben
tures or other securities of or guaranteed by
any municipal corporation in Canada ;
"school securities" means bonds, debentures
or other securities of any school corporation
in Canada. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 43.
Loans and Investments

**44.** An association shall not make any loan
and shall not invest any funds
  * (_a_) if the aggregate of its cash on hand and
on deposit in chartered banks in Canada is
less than five per cent of the total amount
of money on deposit with the association ; or
(6) if the making of such loan or investment
would reduce the aggregate mentioned in
paragraph (a) to less than five per cent of
the total amount of money on deposit with
the association. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 44.

**45.** Subject to subsection 84(4), an associa
tion shall not make any loan and shall not
invest its funds otherwise than in government
securities
  * (_a_) if the aggregate of
  * (_i_) its cash on hand and on deposit in
chartered banks in Canada, and
  * (_ii_) the market value of its government
securities, excluding any such securities
as are pledged by the association as
security for money borrowed by the
association or for any other obligation of
the association,
is less than twenty per cent of the total
amount of money on deposit with the
association; or
(6) if the making of such loan or investment
would reduce the aggregate mentioned in
paragraph (a) to an amount less than twenty
per cent of the total amount of money on
deposit with the association. 1968-69, c. 31,
s. 6.

**46.** (1) An association shall not lend any
money to, nor invest in the securities of, any
member, except as authorized by subsection
(2), if
  * (_a_) the aggregate of
  * (_i_) the total amount of loans made by
the association to the member, less the
market value of government securities,
municipal securities and school securities,
if any, pledged as security for any such
loans, and
  * (_ii_) the total amount invested by the
association in the securities of the member,
exceeds ten per cent of the aggregate of the
paid-up capital of the association and the
total amount of money on deposit with the
association; or
  * (_b_) the making thereof would increase the
first mentioned aggregate to more than ten
per cent of the second mentioned aggregate.
(2) An association may, with the consent of
at least two-thirds of the membership of the
board of directors, make a loan that would
otherwise be prohibited under paragraphe 9(a)
or under subsection (1) of this section if the
term of the loan does not exceed one year
and the loan is adequately secured.
(3) Where an association has made a loan
to any member under the authority of
subsection (2) that would otherwise be prohib
ited under subsection (1), or has authorized
the making of such a loan to any member,
the association shall prepare, as at the last
day of March, June, September and December
in each year and submit to the Superintendent
and to its members a statement showing
  * (_a_) the total amount of loans authorized
and the total amount of loans outstanding
for each such member at the date as at
which the statement is prepared and the
amount and nature of the security pledged
by the member for such loans ;
  * (_b_) the largest amount of loans authorized
and the largest amount of loans outstanding
for each such member at any time during
the preceding quarter-year and the amount
and nature of the security pledged by the
member for such loans ;
  * (_c_) the total amount of the securities of
each such member that were owned by the
association at the date as at which the
statement is prepared ; and
  * (_d_) the largest amount of the securities of
each such member that were owned by the
association at any time during the preceding
quarter-year.
(4) The statement required by subsection
(3) shall be submitted to the Superintendent
and to the members of the association within
fifteen days after the day as at which it is
prepared. 1968-69, c. 31, s. 7.

**47.** (1) The aggregate of
  * (_a_) the total amount borrowed by an
association and outstanding,
  * (_b_) the total amount of money on deposit
with the association, and
  * (_c_) all moneys of which the repayment of
the principal or payment of interest is
guaranteed by the association,
shall not at any time, except as authorized
by subsection (2), exceed ten times the
aggregate of its paid-up capital, the amount
of its guarantee fund and the amount of its
surplus.
(2) An association may, by by-law passed
by the directors and approved by at least a
three-fourths vote of the members and
delegates present at an annual general
meeting or other general meeting of the
association duly called for the purpose of
considering the by-law, increase the limit on
the amount that may be borrowed by the
association under subsection (1) to such limit
as the by-law may provide but subject to the
following conditions :
  * (_a_) the power conferred by the by-law shall
not be exercised by the association unless
the by-law is approved by the Minister on
the recommendation of the Superintendent ;
and
  * (_b_) the by-law shall not increase the limit
beyond twenty times the aggregate of its
paid-up capital, the amount of its guarantee
fund and the amount of its surplus. 1968-
69, c. 31,s.8.

**48.** An association shall not invest any of

**49.** Except as authorized by this Act or the
Special Act, an association shall not either
directly or indirectly deal in the buying or
selling or bartering of goods, wares or
merchandise or engage or be engaged in any
trade or business 1952-53, c. 28, s. 49.
Distribution of Earnings

**50.** (1) The net -earnings arising from the
business of an association in each year shall
be distributed as follows :
  * (_a_) an amount equal to at least twenty per
cent of the net earnings shall be set aside
as a guarantee fund to be held as a reserve
against contingencies, losses and uncollect-
able loans ; but where at the close of any
year the amount of the guarantee fund
equals at least ten per cent of the aggregate
of the paid-up capital of the association
and the total amount of money on deposit
with the association, the directors may,
subject to the approval of two-thirds of the
delegates and members present and voting
at the annual general meeting, direct that
no moneys be set aside for the guarantee
fund for the then current year;
(6) interest may be paid on the paid-up
capital at such rate as may be authorized
by by-law ;
  * (_c_) such further portion of the remaining
net earnings as the directors may determine
may be distributed as a dividend among
the members of the association in such
manner as may be provided in the by-laws;
and
  * (_d_) the interest and dividends due to a
member may at the discretion of the
directors be placed to the credit of such
member on share capital account until the
unpaid balance of all shares held by such
member is fully paid up.
(2) The directors may establish such other
reserve funds in addition to the guarantee
fund as they may deem necessary or advisable.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the net
earnings shall be ascertained from the annual
statement deposited in the Department as
by this Act and such other informa-
tion as may be necessary. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 50.
Annual Statement
5 1. (1) The president or a vice-president
or the managing director or other director
appointed for the purpose by by-law or by
the board of directors and the secretary, or
manager or, in the event of their absence or
inability to act, another officer appointed for
the purpose by resolution of the board of
directors, of every association, shall prepare
annually, under oath, a statement of the
condition and affairs of the association on
the 31st day of December in each year,
showing the assets and liabilities of the
association and its income and expenditures
during the year then ended together with
such other information as the Minister may
from time to time deem necessary.
(2) The annual statement shall be in such
form as the Minister may from time to time
determine and shall be deposited in the
Department within two months after the 1st
day of January in each year, but such
schedules to the said statement as the Minister
may from time to time designate may be
deposited not later than three months after
that day.
(3) In the annual statement the bonds,
debentures and other securities owned by the
association shall be taken into account at
values not in excess of the market values of
such securities at the date of the statement,
or, in the discretion of the Superintendent, at
a date not more than sixty days before the
date of the statement.
(4) j n the annual statement any loan made
by the association that is in default as to
principal or interest shall be shown at a value
not exceeding the outstanding amount of the
loan less a proportion, as specified in
subsection (5), of the difference between the
outstanding amount of the loan and the
aggregate of
  * (_a_) the amount of money on deposit with
the association to the credit of the borrower,
and
(6) the market value of any government
securities, municipal securities and school
securities pledged as security for the loan.
(5) The proportion referred to in subsection
is as follows :
  * (_a_) where the loan is in default as to
principal or interest for a period of three
months but less than six months, ten per
cent ;
(6) where the loan is in default as to
principal or interest for a period of six
months but less than twelve months, twenty-
five per cent ;
  * (_c_) where the loan is in default as to
principal or interest for a period of twelve
months but less than eighteen months, fifty
per cent ;
  * (_d_) where the loan is in default as to
principal or interest for a period of eighteen
months but less than twenty-four months,
seventy-five per cent ; and
  * (_e_) where the loan is in default as to
principal or interest for a period of twenty-
four months or more, one hundred per cent.
1952-53, c. 28,s.51.

**52.** (1) At every annual general meeting
of an association the directors shall submit a
full and clear statement of the condition and
affairs of the association.
(2) A copy of the statement shall be
submitted to the Superintendent not later
than the day of the annual general meeting
and if, in the opinion of the Superintendent,
the statement does not show truly and
accurately the condition and affairs of the
association, the Superintendent may require
the statement to be amended.
(3) A copy of the statement, or of the
statement so amended, as the case may be,
shall be sent to each director, to each member
and to the Superintendent. 1952-53, c. 28, s.

**52.**

**53.** An association shall prepare as at the
last day of March, June, September and
December in each year and submit to the
Superintendent a statement of assets and
liabilities in such detail as the Superintendent
the association or of a member of the
association or of any corporation, organization
or association affiliated with a member of the
association shall not be appointed auditor of
the association.
(3) The remuneration of the auditor of an
association shall be fixed by the members and
delegates at each annual general meeting or
by the directors if authorized to do so by the
meeting, but the remuneration of any auditor
appointed to fill any casual vacancy may be
fixed by the directors.
(4) If the appointment of an auditor is not
made at any annual general meeting, the
Minister may on application of any member
appoint an auditor of the association for the
current year and fix the remuneration to be
paid to him by the association for his services.
1952-53, c. 28, s 53; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 10.

**55.** (1) Every auditor of the association
has a right of access at all times to the books
and accounts and vouchers of the association,
and is entitled to require from the directors
and officers of the association such informa
tion and explanations as may be necessary
for the performance of the duties of an
auditor.
(2) The auditor shall make a report to the
members on the statement submitted by the
directors to the association at the annual
general meeting.
(3) The auditor shall make a report to the
Superintendent with respect to the accuracy
of the statement required by section 51 to be
deposited in the Department, and shall also
report to him upon the adequacy of the
procedure adopted by the association to
safeguard the interests of its creditors and
members and as to the sufficiency of his own
procedure in auditing the affairs of the
association.
(4) The auditor shall disclose to the Super
intendent any matters or circumstances that
have come to his knowledge or attention
during the course of the audit that would in
tendent may enlarge or extend the scope of
the audit and direct that any other or
particular examination be made or procedure
established. 1952-53, c. 28, s 54.
Superintendent

**56.** (1) The Superintendent may visit per
sonally, or cause a duly qualified member of
his staff to visit, the head office of any
association, whenever he deems it necessary
as the result of an examination of the
statements filed by the association or of the
auditor s report, or as the result of information
coming to his attention from any other source,
and examine the condition and affairs of the
association, and report thereon to the Minister
as to all matters requiring the Minister s
attention and decision.
(2) The officers of such association shall
cause the books of the association to be open
for the inspection of the Superintendent, and
shall otherwise facilitate such examination so
far as it is in their power.
(3) For the purpose of such inquiry, the
Superintendent may examine under oath the
officers, clerks or servants of the association.
(4) The Superintendent may if he deems it
necessary nominate an auditor qualified to
be appointed as an auditor of the affairs of a
bank under the Bank Act to make a special
audit ; and the auditor so nominated may
audit the books, accounts and securities of the
association and shall report thereon to the
Superintendent.
(5) The expenses of a special audit made
under subsection (4) shall be borne by the
association, and the auditor s account therefor
when approved in writing by the Superin
tendent is payable by the association forth
with. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 55; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 11.

**57.** The Superintendent shall prepare for
the Minister an annual report giving particu
lars of the condition and affairs of each
association. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 56.

**58.** (1) The Superintendent may address
duty of the association or person so addressed
promptly to reply in writing to any such
inquiries.
(2) The Superintendent may, in his discre
tion, embody in his annual report to the
Minister the inquiries made by him under
this section and the answers thereto. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 57.

**59.** If upon an examination of the assets
of any association it appears to the Superin
tendent, or if he has any reason to suppose,
that the value placed by the association upon
the real estate owned by it or any parcel
thereof is too great, he may either require the
association to procure an appraisement of
such real estate by one or more competent
valuators, or may himself procure such
appraisement at the association s expense,
and the appraised value, if it is materially
less than that shown in the return made by
the association, may be substituted in the
annual report prepared for the Minister by
the Superintendent. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 58.

**60.** (1) In the annual report prepared for
the Minister, the Superintendent shall allow
as assets only such loans and investments as
are authorized by this Act, or as were
authorized by law at the time they were made
or acquired, as the case may be.
(2) In the report, the Superintendent shall
make all necessary corrections in the annual
statements deposited in the Department as
provided in section 51 and may increase or
diminish the liabilities in such statements to
the true and correct amounts as ascertained
by him. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 59.

**61.** (i) An appeal lies in a summary
manner from the ruling of the Superintendent
as to the admissibility of any asset not
allowed by him, or as to any item or amount
added to the liabilities, or as to any correction
or alteration made in any statement, or as to
(2) For the purposes of any appeal, the
Superintendent shall, at the request of the
association concerned, give a certificate in
writing setting forth the ruling appealed from
and the reasons therefor, but the ruling is
binding upon the association unless the
association within fifteen days after notice of
the ruling serves upon the Superintendent
notice of its intention to appeal therefrom,
setting forth the grounds of appeal, and
within fifteen days thereafter files its appeal
with the Registrar of the Court and prosecutes
the appeal with due diligence, in which case
action on such ruling shall be suspended until
the Court has rendered judgment thereon.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 60.

**62.** Where, in the administration of any
provision of this Act, it is necessary to
determine some or all of the assets and
liabilities of an association, the Superintend
ent may, subject to section 61, amend any
statement showing such assets and liabilities
as if it were a statement to be embodied in
his annual report to the Minister; and the
statement, including the amendments, if any,
made by the Superintendent, is conclusive for
the purposes of such determination. 1952-53,
c. 28, s. 61.

**63.** (1) If as the result of an examination
of any association or if for any other reason
the Superintendent believes that the assets of
the association are insufficient to justify its
continuance in business, he shall make a
special report to the Minister on the condition
of the association.
(2) If the Minister, after a reasonable time
has been given to the association to be heard
by him, and upon such further inquiry and
investigation as he sees fit to make, reports to
the Governor in Council that he agrees with
the opinion of the Superintendent, the
Governor in Council may, if he also concurs
in such opinion, suspend or cancel the
certificate of the association and the associa
tion shall thereupon cease to transact further
business; but the Minister may, during such
suspension or cancellation, issue such condi
tional certificate as he may deem necessary
for the protection of the members and creditors
of the association.
(3) If the Minister deems it advisable, the
conditional certificate may provide that the
association shall, during the continuance of
conditional certificate, arrange for the
of its assets and for the transfer of its
liabilities under section 10.
(4) If upon the expiration of the conditional
certificate no arrangement satisfactory to the
Minister has been made for such sale and
transfer, and if the association s condition is
not then such as to warrant the restoration of
the association s certificate, the association
shall be deemed to be insolvent. 1952-53, c.
28,s.62; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 17.
Miscellaneous

**64.** Her Majesty is not liable to any
depositor, creditor or member of any associa
tion, or to any other person, for any damages,
payment, compensation or indemnity that he
may suffer or claim by reason of sections 19,
52, 56, 57, 59, 60, 62, 63 and 81 or anything
contained therein, or by reason of anything
done or omitted to be done under the
requirements of those sections, or by reason
of anything omitted to be done that is by
those sections required to be done, or by
reason of any order or direction of the
Governor in Council, the Treasury Board, the
Minister or the Superintendent in the execu
tion or administration of the powers or any
of them conferred by those sections, or by
reason of any failure or omission on the part
of the Governor in Council, the Treasury
Board, the Minister or the Superintendent or
of any officer or employee of Her Majesty to
execute or discharge any power, authority, or
duty under those sections, or otherwise by
reason of any default, negligence, mistake,
error or omission in the administration or
discharge of the powers or duties that in any
circumstances are by those sections intended
or authorized to be executed or performed;
and no such payment, damages, compensation
or indemnity, nor any claim therefor, shall in
any case be authorized, paid or entertained
by Her Majesty. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 63.

**65.** The Superintendent shall annually
cause an assessment to be prepared against
each association on the basis of its total
income during the last preceding year for the
purpose of meeting the expense incurred in
Insurance Act apply, mutatis mutandis, to
every association to the same extent as if the
title of this Act were inserted in the schedule
to the Department of Insurance Act. 1952-53, c.
28, s. 64.

**66.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to authorize an association to issue any note
payable to bearer or any promissory note
intended to be circulated as money or as the
note of a bank. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 65.

**67.** An association has a lien on the shares,
interest thereon, dividends and deposits of
each member for debts due from the member
to the association and may apply any sum
credited to the member in or toward the
payment of such debt. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 66.

## PART III

## LIABILITIES
Contracts

**68.** (1) Every contract, agreement, engage
ment or bargain made, and every bill of
exchange drawn, accepted or endorsed and
every promissory note and cheque made,
drawn or endorsed on behalf of the association,
by any agent, officer or servant of the
association, within the apparent scope of his
authority as such agent, officer or servant, is
binding upon the association.
(2) It is not necessary to affix the seal of
the association to any such contract, agree
ment, engagement, bargain, bill of exchange,
promissory note or cheque, or to prove that it
was made, drawn, accepted or endorsed, as
the case may be, in pursuance of any by-law
or special vote or order.
(3) The person so acting as agent, officer or
servant of the association, is not thereby
subjected personally to any liability to any
third person therefor. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 67.
Liability of Directors

**69.** (1) If the directors of an association
declare and pay any dividend when the
association is insolvent, or any dividend the
payment of which renders the association
insolvent or diminishes the capital thereof,
they are jointly and severally liable, as well
to the association as to the individual members
and creditors thereof, to the amount of any
dividends so declared and paid, for the debts
of the association then existing, and for any
debts thereafter contracted during their con
tinuance in office.
(2) If any director present when such
dividend is declared does forthwith, or if any
director then absent does, within five days
after he becomes aware of such dividend being
declared and is able so to do, by registered
mail, notify the secretary of the association
for entry on the minutes of the board of
directors, and notify the Superintendent, of
his protest against the declaration of the
dividend, and within eight days thereafter
publishes such protest in at least one
newspaper published at the place in which
the head office or chief place of business of
the association is situated, or if there is no
newspaper there published, in a newspaper
published at the place nearest thereto, such
director may thereby, and not otherwise,
exonerate himself from such liability. 1952-
53, c. 28, s. 68.

**70.** If any loan is made by an association
in violation of this Act, all directors and
officers of the association who make the loan
or assent thereto are jointly and severally
liable, up to the amount of such loan with
interest, to the association and also to creditors
of the association, for all debts of the
association then existing or contracted from
the time of the making of such loan to the
time of the repayment thereof. 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 69.

**71.** (1) The directors of an association are
jointly and severally liable to the clerks and
servants thereof for all debts, not exceeding
six months wages, due for services performed
for the association while they are such
directors, but no director is liable to an action
unless the association has been sued
for the debt within one year after it became
nor unless such director is sued therefor
one year from the time when he ceased
to be such a director, nor unless an execution
against the association at the suit of such
clerk or servant is returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part.
(2) The amount unsatisfied on such execu
tion is the amount recoverable with costs from
the directors. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 70.
Offences and Penalties

**72.** Every director, officer and servant of
an association who refuses or wilfully neglects
to make any proper entry in the books of the
association is guilty of an indictable offence
and liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 71.

**73.** The making of any wilfully false or
deceptive statement in any account, state
ment, return, report or other document
respecting the affairs of an association, or the
using of any false or deceptive statement in
any account, statement, return, report or other
document respecting the affairs of the associa
tion is an indictable offence punishable, unless
a greater punishment is in any case by law
prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years. 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 72.

**74.** Every director, auditor, manager or
other officer of an association who negligently
prepares, signs, approves or concurs in any
account, statement, return, report or document
respecting the affairs of the association
containing any false or deceptive statement,
is guilty of an indictable offence punishable,
unless a greater punishment is in any case by
law prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding three years. 1952-53, c.
28, s. 73.

**75.** Every director, officer and servant of
an association who refuses to produce for
examination to the Superintendent or auditor
or any member of his staff duly authorized
him to examine the condition and affairs
the association, all books and documents
in his custody or control, is guilty of an
offence and liable on summary conviction to
a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 74.

**75.** Any association or person that does,
causes or permits to be done any matter, act
or thing contrary to any provision of this Act,
or to any orders or directions made under this
Act, or omits to do any matter, act or thing
by this Act required to be done by or on the
part of such association or person, is guilty of
an offence and, if no other penalty for such
act or omission is provided in this Act, liable
on summary conviction for each such offence
to a fine of not less than twenty dollars and
not more than five thousand dollars, and such
association or person is also, in addition to
such fine, liable to any person injured by such
matter, act or thing, or by such omission, for
all damages sustained thereby. 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 75.

**77.** Every association that makes default
in depositing in the Department the annual
statement as required by this Act shall incur
a penalty of ten dollars for each day during
which the default continues. 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 76.

**78.** (1) An association that makes a loan
or investment contrary to section 44, 45, 46 or
84 is liable to a penalty of ten dollars for each
day during which the loan or investment is
outstanding.
(2) If default is made by or with respect to
an association in complying with section 47,
the association is liable to a penalty of ten
dollars for each day during which the default
continues.
(3) The Minister may waive all or any part
of the penalties prescribed by this section in
any case where in his opinion the circum
so warrant.
(4) The penalties prescribed by this section
in addition to the penalties prescribed by

**76.** 1952-53, c. 28, s. 77.

**79.** The amount of the penalties imposed
upon an association or person for any violation
of this Act, unless otherwise provided by this
Act, are recoverable and enforceable with
costs at the suit of Her Majesty instituted by
the Attorney General of Canada. 1952-53, c.
28, s. 78.

## PART IV

## COOPERATIVE CREDIT

## ORGANIZATIONS

**80.** (1) Every organization that
  * (_a_) is carrying on the business of a cooper
ative credit society,
(6) is declared by Parliament or by the
Governor in Council to be eligible to become
a member of an association, and
  * (_c_) is registered on the books of the
association as a shareholder thereof,
shall, for the purposes of Parts II and III, be
deemed to be a cooperative credit society
incorporated by Special Act, and, except as
provided in this Part, every such organization
fe invested with all the powers, privileges and
immunities conferred on associations by
sections 6, 8 and 10, and is subject to the
limitations, liabilities and provisions set forth
in Parts II and III and in this Part.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not come into force
with respect to an organization until the
organization has been granted a certificate by
the Minister under this Part. 1952-53, c. 28, s.
79; 1968-69, c. 31, ss. 12, 17.

**81.** (1) The Minister may on the applica
tion of an organization grant a certificate
authorizing the organization to carry on
business under this Act.
(2) No certificate shall be granted under
this section until the Minister is satisfied that
  * (_a_) the organization complies with the
requirements of subsection 80(1), and
(6) the financial status and condition of the
organization are such that
  * (_i_) it is able to meet all of its obligations,
and
  * (_ii_) upon the grant of the certificate the
organization will be able to satisfy all the
requirements devolving on it under this
Act;
and any certificate granted by the Minister
may contain, or may be amended to include,
any limitations or conditions that the
Minister may deem necessary or advisable.
1952-53, c. 28, s. 80; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 17.

**82.** The power to receive money on deposit
from its members and to lend money to its
members, conferred on an organization by
this Part, may be exercised only in the
province in which the organization was
constituted. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 81.

**83.** A declaration by Parliament or by the
Governor in Council that an organization is
eligible to become a member of an association
is deemed to be repealed
  * (_a_) if the organization does not, within two
years after the day on which the declaration
was made, become registered on the books
of an association as a shareholder thereof,
  * (_b_) if the organization, having been regis
tered on the books of the association as a
shareholder thereof, ceases to be so regis
tered, or
  * (_c_) if a certificate under this Part has not
been granted within two years after the
declaration by Parliament that the organi
zation is eligible to become a member of an
association, or within such extended period
not exceeding one year as the Governor in
Council before the expiration of such two
years allows. 1952-53, c. 28, s. 82; 1968-69, c.
31, s. 13.

**84.** (1) An organization with respect to
which subsection 80(1) is in force shall not
make any investment or deposit otherwise
than as authorized by this Act.
(2) Subject to subsection (1) an organization
with respect to which subsection 80(1) is in
force may exercise powers conferred upon it
by the province in which it is incorporated
except as specifically prohibited by this Act.
(3) An organization may invest in the
and shares of a corporation having
its objects the buying, selling and dealing
but the total amount of the investment in
such corporations shall not exceed twenty per
cent of the paid-up capital of the organization.
(4) An organization with respect to which
subsection 80(1) is in force may include
deposits with an association in the assets
listed in paragraph 45(a) for the purpose of
aggregating under that paragraph, but the
total of such deposits so included shall not
exceed five per cent of the total amount of
money on deposit with the organization. 1968-
69,c.31,s. 14.

**85.** (1) If, on the day that subsection 80(1)
comes into force with respect to an organiza
tion, (in this section called the "effective
day"), the aggregate mentioned in paragraph
44(a) is a smaller proportion of the total
amount of money on deposit with the
organization than five per cent, such smaller
proportion shall, in the application of that
section to the organization, be substituted for
five per cent for a period of one year from
the effective day.
(2) If on the effective day the aggregate
mentioned in paragraph 45(ct) is a smaller
proportion of the total amount of money on
deposit with the organization than twenty per
cent, such smaller proportion shall, in the
application of section 45 to the organization,
be substituted for twenty per cent for a period
of one year from the effective day.
(3) If on the effective day the aggregate of
the amounts set out in subparagraphs
46(l)(a)(i) and (ii) with respect to any member
exceeds ten per cent of the aggregate of the
paid-up capital of the organization and the
total amount of money on deposit with the
organization, then, until the first mentioned
aggregate is reduced to less than ten per cent
of the second mentioned aggregate,
  * (_a_) the organization shall not lend any
money to or make any investment in the
securities of that member ; and
(6) subsections 46(3) and (4) are applicable
as though the total amount of loans made
to that member had been made under the
authority of subsection 46(2). 1952-53, c. 28,
s. 84 ; 1968-69, c. 31, s. 15.

**86.** Where an organization has been
declared by Parliament or by the Governor
in Council to be eligible to become a member
of an association, then, until such time as a
certificate is granted to the organization by
the Minister under this Part or the declaration
is deemed to be repealed under paragraph
83(a) or (c), the Superintendent may require
from the organization any statement that the
organization would be required to deposit in
the Department, or any information concern
ing its condition and affairs that he could
require, if Part II of this Act applied to the
organization. 1968-69, c. 31, s. 16.
