
# CHAPTER C-33
Act respecting inquiries as to corrupt
practices at elections of members of the
House of Commons

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Corrupt
Practices Inquiries Act. R.S., c. 56, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"election" means an election of a member of
the House of Commons of Canada ;
"elector" means a person entitled to vote at
an election. R.S., c. 56, s. 2.

## COMMISSION OF INQUIRY
3, Where the House of Commons by address
A i n r^ i
represents to the Governor General
  * (_a_) that a judge in his report on the trial of
an election petition under the Dominion
Controverted Elections Act, states that cor
rupt or illegal practices have, or that there
is reason to believe that corrupt or illegal
practices have, extensively prevailed at the
election, or that he is of opinion that the
inquiry into the circumstances of the
election has been rendered incomplete by
the action of any of the parties to the
petition, and that further inquiry as to
whether corrupt or illegal practices have
extensively prevailed is desirable, or
(6) that a petition has been, within the time
specified in section 4, presented to the
House of Commons, signed by any twenty-
that no petition charging the existence of
corrupt or illegal practices has been pre
sented under the Dominion Controverted
Elections Act, and that corrupt or illegal
practices have, or that there is reason to
believe that corrupt or illegal practices
have, extensively prevailed at the election ;
and by such address prays the Governor
General to cause inquiry to be made under
this Act
  * (_c_) by one or more judges of the Supreme
Court of Canada,
  * (_d_) by one or more judges competent under
the Dominion Controverted Elections Act to
try an election petition in the province
within which the district in question is
situated, or
  * (_e_) by one or more barristers-at-law or
advocates of not less than seven years
standing, and not holding any office or
place of profit under the Crown, or by one
or more county court judges, named in such
address,
the Governor General may appoint one or
more of the persons named or referred to in
such address to be a commissioner or commis
sioners for the purpose of making inquiry into
the existence of such corrupt or illegal
practices. U.S., c. 56, s. 3.

**4.** The petition mentioned in section 3
shall be presented to the House of Commons
  * (_a_) within sixty days after publication in
the Canada Gazette of the notice of the
return of the writ of election by the Chief
Electoral Officer, if Parliament is sitting at
the expiry of such sixty days, or
  * (_b_) if Parliament is not then sitting, within
the first fourteen days of the session then
next ensuing. R.S., c. 56, s. 4.

**5.** Every petition referred to in section 4
shall have annexed thereto a declaration
under the Canada Evidence Act by the
petitioners stating that they are electors of
the district and that the allegations of the
petition are true to the best of their knowledge
and belief. R.S., c. 56, s. 5.

**6.** Where more than one commissioner has
been appointed, and a commissioner dies,
resigns or becomes incapable of acting, any
commissioner or commissioners
may act in such inquiry as if he or they had
been solely appointed. R.S., c. 56, s. 6.

**7.** All the provisions of this Act relating to
any inquiry under the Act apply to such
remaining commissioner or commissioners as
if no other commissioner or commissioners
had been originally appointed, and they also
apply to any person originally appointed sole
commissioner. R.S., c. 56, s. 7.
DEPOSIT

**8.** (1) The person or persons presenting a
petition to the House of Commons under this
Act shall deposit with the accountant of the
House the sum of one thousand dollars.
(2) There shall be attached to the petition,
on its presentation, a certificate given under
the hand of the accountant, certifying that
the deposit of one thousand dollars has been
duly made.
(3) The House of Commons shall not receive
the petition unless the deposit has been made.
R.S., c. 56, s. 8.

## OATH BY COMMISSIONERS

**9.** Every commissioner shall, before acting
as such, take an oath in the following form :
I, A.B., do swear that I will truly and faithfully execute
the powers and trusts vested in me by the Corrupt Practices
Inquiries Act, according to the best of my knowledge and
judgment. So help me God.
R.S.,c. 56, s. 9.

**10.** Every oath referred to in section 9
shall be taken before a judge of the Supreme
Court of Canada or before a judge competent
to try an election petition for any district of
the province within which the district in
the inquiry to be made by the
(2) The remuneration of the persons so
appointed shall be fixed by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 56, s. 11.

## DUTIES AND POWERS OF COMMISSIONERS

**12.** The commissioners shall, upon their
appointment or within a reasonable time
thereafter, hold meetings from time to time
for the purposes of the inquiry at some
convenient place within the district or within
ten miles thereof, and may adjourn such
meetings from time to time, and from place
to place, within the district or within ten
miles thereof, as they deem expedient. R.S.,
c. 56, s. 12.

**13.** The commissioners shall give notice of
their appointment and of the time and place
of their first meeting by publishing the same
in two newspapers in general circulation in
the district or the neighbourhood thereof.
R.S.,c. 56, s. 13.

**14.** The commissioners shall not adjourn
the inquiry for any period exceeding one
week, without the approval of the Minister of
Justice, and they may, with the approval of
that Minister, hold meetings for the purposes
of deliberation, in the capital city of the
province within which the district is situated,
or in the city of Ottawa, and adjourn the
meetings from time to time, as they deem
proper. R.S., c. 56, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The commissioners may, by a
summons under their hands and seals, or
under the hand and seal of any one of them,
require the attendance before them, at a place
and at any reasonable time specified in the
summons, of any person whose evidence may,
in their opinion, be material to the subject-
matter of the inquiry, and require any person
to bring before them such books, papers, deeds
and writings as appear necessary for arriving
at the truth of the matters to be inquired
into.
(2) All such persons, upon being served with
a summons, shall appear before the commis
as required by the summons, and shall
all questions put to them by the
on the matters of the inquiry,
shall produce all books, papers, deeds
and writings required of them and in their
custody or under their control according to
the tenor of the summons. R.S., c. 56, s. 15.

**16.** The summons referred to in section 15
may be served on any person by the delivery
of a copy of it to him or by leaving the copy
at his usual place of abode. R.S., c. 56, s. 16.

**17.** When any person on whom a summons
has been served fails to appear before the
commissioners at the time and place specified,
any one of the commissioners, if they are
judges of any of the courts hereinbefore
referred to, and any court of which any one
of them is a member, may proceed against
the person so failing in the same manner as
if he had failed to obey any writ of subpoena,
or any process lawfully issuing from such
judge or from the court to which such judge
belongs. R.S.,c. 56, s. 17.

**18.** Where the commissioners are not judges
within the meaning of section 17, they may
certify such default of appearance under their
hands and seals, or under the hand and seal
of any one of them, to any judge competent
to sit at the trial of an election petition under
the Dominion Controverted Elections Act, in
the province within which the district in
question is situated, or to the court of which
such judge is a member, and such court or
judge shall proceed against such person in the
manner described in section 17. U.S., c. 56, s.

**18.**

**19.** Where any person summoned under
this Act refuses to be sworn or to make answer
to any question put to him by the commis
sioners holding any such inquiry on the
matters in question, or to produce and show
to such commissioners any papers, books,
deeds or writings in his possession or under
his control that such commissioners deem
necessary to be produced, or where any person
is guilty of any contempt of the commissioners
or their office, the commissioners have the
same powers, to be exercised in the same way,
as any such court or judge might by law
exercise in that behalf under like circumstances
arising in the course of proceedings in an
petition under the Dominion Controv
erted Elections Act. R.S., c. 56, s. 19.

**20.** All officers concerned in the adminis
tration of justice shall give their aid and
assistance, in matters within the scope of their
duty, to the commissioners in the execution
of their office. R.S., c. 56, s. 20.
2 1. The commissioners or one of them shall
administer an oath or an affirmation, where
an affirmation would be permitted in a court
of justice, to every person examined before
them. R.S.,c. 56, s. 21.

**22.** The commissioners may, if they deem
fit, award to any witness summoned to appear
before them a reasonable sum for travelling
expenses and maintenance, according to a
scale which shall be fixed by the Governor in
Council, and they shall certify to the Minister
of Justice the name of any such witness and
the sum awarded. R.S., c. 56, s. 22.

**23.** The commissioners shall, by all such
lawful means as to them appear best, with a
view to the discovery of the truth, inquire
into the manner in which the election, or, if
the report or petition has referred to two or
more elections, the latest of such elections,
has been conducted, and whether any corrupt
or illegal practices have been committed at
such election, and, if so, the nature and
particulars of such corrupt or illegal practices.
R.S., c. 56, s. 23.

**24.** (1) If the commissioners find that
corrupt or illegal practices have been commit
ted at the election into which they are
authorized to inquire, they may make like
inquiries concerning the latest previous elec
tion, and so, in like manner, from election to
election as far back as they deem fit.
(2) If, upon inquiry concerning any election,
the commissioners do not find that corrupt or
illegal practices have been committed at that
election, the commissioners shall not inquire
concerning any previous election. R.S., c. 56,
s. 24.

**25.** Where a witness answers every question
to receive from the commissioners,
under their hands, a certificate stating that
he was, upon his examination, required by
them to answer one or more questions relating
to the matters aforesaid, the answer or answers
to which criminated, or tended to criminate
him, and had answered every such question.
R.S.,c. 56, s. 25.

**26.** No statement made by any person in
answer to any question put by the commis
sioners is, except in the case of an indictment
for perjury, admissible in evidence in any
legal proceeding. R.S., c. 56, s. 26.

**27.** Where any information, indictment or
penal action is at any time after an inquiry
pending in any court against such witness in
respect of any corrupt or illegal practices
committed by him, prior to the time of his
giving of evidence, at any election concerning
which he has been so examined, the court
shall, on production and proof of such
certificate, stay such proceedings, and may,
in its discretion, award to him any costs to
which he has been put. R.S., c. 56, s. 27.

## REPORTS

**28.** The commissioners shall, from time to
time, report to the Governor General the
evidence taken and what they find concerning
the premises. R.S., c. 56, s. 28.

**29.** The commissioners shall report with
respect to each election the names of all
persons whom they find to have been guilty
of any corrupt or illegal practice at that
election, with the particulars thereof, and all
other things whereby in their opinion the
truth may be better known concerning the
premises. R.S., c. 56, s. 29.

**30.** Every report referred to in sections 28
and 29 shall be submitted to Parliament
  * (_a_) within fourteen days after such report
is made, if Parliament is sitting at the
expiration of such period, or
  * (_b_) if Parliament is not then sitting, within
fourteen days from the time of the next
meeting of Parliament after such report is
made. R.S., c. 56, s. 30.

## PROCEEDINGS ON REPORT

**31.** Whenever it appears by the report of
the commissioners under this Act that any
person named by them has been guilty of a
corrupt or illegal practice and has not been
furnished by them with a certificate of
indemnity, such report with the evidence
taken by the commissioners, shall be laid
before the Attorney General of Canada, who
shall, if in his opinion there is sufficient
evidence available for a prosecution, certify
such opinion to the Secretary of State of
Canada who shall thereupon communicate
the report with the evidence to the lieutenant
governor of the province in which the elec
tion was held. R.S., c. 56, s. 31.

**32.** The Attorney General of Canada shall
instruct counsel to assist in any prosecution
that is thereon instituted by the local
authorities charged with the administration
of justice. R.S., c. 56, s. 32.

## GENERAL

**33.** Where, by the report of the commis
sioners appointed to investigate and inquire
into the matters set forth in such petition, it
appears that the petition was not well
founded, and that corrupt or illegal practices
had not extensively prevailed within the
electoral district referred to in the petition, at
the election referred to therein, the sum of
one thousand dollars deposited as aforesaid
or so much thereof as is required for the
purpose , shall be applied to pay the expenses
of the inquiry, and the balance remaining,
after paying such expenses, shall be paid to
the person or persons who made such deposit.
R.S., c. 56, s. 33.

**34.** Where, by the report of the commis
sioners appointed to investigate and inquire
referred to therein, the sum of one
thousand dollars mentioned in section 33 shall
be paid back to the person or persons who
deposited it. R.S., c. 56, s. 34.

**35.** Every commissioner shall, after having
made his report, lay before the Governor in
Council a statement of the number of days
he has actually been engaged in connection
with the inquiry together with an account of
his travelling and other expenses. R.S., c. 56,
s. 35.

**36.** The Governor in Council may order
the payment of the necessary expenses of any
inquiry under this Act ; and every commis
sioner not being a judge shall, at the
conclusion of the inquiry, be paid, in addition
to his travelling and other expenses, such sum
as is fixed by the Governor in Council. U.S.,
c. 56, s. 36.

**37.** Any payment authorized by this Act
shall be made out of moneys provided by
Parliament for that purpose. R.S., c. 56, s. 37.

**38.** Where an action is brought against the
commissioners for any act done or omitted to
be done in the execution of their duties, they
have the like protection and privileges as are
given by any Act in force to justices of the
peace acting in the execution of their office.
R.S.,c. 56, s. 38.
