
# CHAPTER C-38
Act respecting the liability of the Crown
for torts and civil salvage

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Crown
Liability Act. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Crown" means Her Majesty in right of
Canada ;
"Crown ship" means a ship, as defined in the
Canada Shipping Act, that is owned by or is
in the exclusive possession of the Crown ;
"servant includes agent, but does not include
any person appointed or employed by or
under the authority of an ordinance of the
Yukon Territory or the Northwest Territo
ries;
"tort" in respect of any matter arising in the
Province of Quebec, means delict or quasi-
delict. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 2.

## PARTI

## LIABILITY
Tort and Civil Salvage

**3.** The Crown is liable in tort for the
damages for which, if it were a private person
of full age and capacity, it would be liable
  * (_a_) in respect of a tort committed by a
servant of the Crown, or
(6) in respect of a breach of duty attaching
to the ownership, occupation, possession or
control of property.
(2) The Crown is liable for the damage
sustained by any person by reason of a motor
vehicle, owned by the Crown, upon a highway,
for which the Crown would be liable if it were
a private person of full age and capacity.
(3) The lawrelating to civil salvage, whether
of life or property, (except sections 518 to 521,
524 to 528 and 530 of the Canada Shipping
Act) applies in relation to salvage sen-ices
rendered after the 14th day of May 1953, in
assisting any Crown ship or aircraft, or in
saving life therefrom, or in saving any cargo
or apparel belonging to the Crown, in the
same manner as if the ship, aircraft, cargo or
other apparel belonged to a private person,
except that all claims against the Crown
under this subsection shall be made by
petition of right and shall be heard and
determined by a judge of the Exchequer
Court of Canada.
(4) Sections 645 and 647 to 653 of the
Canada Shipping Act apply for the purpose of
limiting the liability of the Crown in respect
of Crown ships; and where, for the purposes
of any proceedings under this Act, it is
necessary to ascertain the tonnage of a ship
that has no register tonnage within the
meaning of the Canada Shipping Act, the
tonnage of the ship shall be ascertained in
accordance with section 94 of that Act.
(5) Section 536 of the Canada Shipping Act
applies in respect of salvage sen-ices rendered
to Crown ships or aircraft as it applies in
respect of salvage sen-ices rendered to other
ships or aircraft, and sections 638 to 640 of
that Act apply in respect of Crown ships as
they apply in the case of other ships.
  * (_g_) Nothing in this section makes the Crown
^ & ^ e in respect of anything done or omitted
in the exercise of any power or authority that,
if this section had not been passed, would
have been exercisable by virtue of the
prerogative of the Crown, or any power or
authority conferred on the Crown by any
statute, and, in particular, but without
the generality of the foregoing,
nothing in this section makes the Crown liable
in respect of anything done or omitted in the
exercise of any power or authority exercisable
by the Crown, whether in time of peace or of
war, for the purpose of the defence of Canada
or of training, or maintaining the efficiency
of, the Canadian Forces. 1952-53, c. 30, ss. 3,
25(3).
Special Provisions respecting Liability

**4.** (j) NO proceedings lie against the Crown
or a servant of the Crown in respect of a claim
if a pension or compensation has been paid
or is payable out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund or out of any funds administered by an
agency of the Crown in respect of the death,
injury, damage or loss in respect of which the
claim is made.
(2) No proceedings lie against the Crown
by virtue of paragraph 3(l)(a) in respect of
any act or omission of a sen-ant of the Crown
unless the act or omission would apart from
the provisions of this Act have given rise to a
cause of action in tort against that servant or
his personal representative.
(3) N O proceedings lie against the Crown
by virtue of subsection 3(2) in respect of
damage sustained by any person by reason of
a motor vehicle upon a highway unless the
driver of the motor vehicle or his personal
representative is liable for the damage so
sustained.
(4) N O proceedings lie against the Crown
by virtue of paragraph 3(lXb) unless, within
seven days after the claim arose, notice in
writing of the claim and of the injury
complained of
  * (_a_) has been served upon a responsible
official of the department or agency
administering the property or the employee
of the department or agency in control or
charge of the property, and
  * (_b_) a copy of the notice has been sent by
registered mail to the Deputy Attorney
General of Canada.
(5) j n t ^e case of the death of the person
injured, failure to give the notice required by
subsection (4) is not a bar to the proceedings,
and, except where the injury was caused by
or ice, failure to give or insufficiency of
the notice is not a bar to the proceedings if
the court or judge before whom the proceedings
are taken is of opinion that the Crown in its
defence was not prejudiced by the want or
insufficiency of the notice and that to bar the
proceedings would be an injustice, notwith
standing that reasonable excuse for the want
or insufficiency of the notice is not established.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 4.
Property

**5.** (1) Paragraph 3(1)(6) is not applicable
in respect of any property acquired by the
Crown on, before or after the 15th day of
November 1954, unless the Crown or some
person acting for the Crown has, in fact,
  * (_a_) in the case of personal property, taken
physical control thereof, and
(6) in the case of real property, entered into
occupation thereof.
(2) Where the Governor in Council has by
order published in the Canada Gazette
declared that the Crown has, either before or
after the 15th day of November 1954, ceased
to be in control of any specified personal
property or to be in occupation of any
specified real property, paragraph 3(l)(b) is
not applicable in respect of the specified
property from the day of publication of the
order until the day the order is revoked. 1952-
53, c. 30,s.5.
Proceedings in rem
5 &amp;gt; Nothing in this Act authorizes proceed
ings in rem in respect of any claim against the
Crown, or the arrest, detention or sale of any
Crown ship or aircraft, or of any cargo or
other property belonging to the Crown, or
gives to any person any lien on any such ship,
aircraft, cargo or other property. 1952-53, c.
30, s. 6.
Jurisdiction of Exchequer Court

**7.** (1) Except as provided in section 8, and
subject to section 23, the Exchequer Court of
Canada has exclusive original jurisdiction to
hear and determine every claim for damages
under this Act.
(2) The Exchequer Court of Canada has
original jurisdiction with respect
to the claims described in subsection 8(2), and
any claim that may be the subject-matter of
an action, suit or other legal proceeding
referred to in section 23. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 7.

# PARTH

## PROCEEDINGS IN PROVINCIAL

## COURTS
Jurisdiction

**8.** (1) In this section "provincial court"
with respect to any province in which a claim
sought to be enforced under this Part arises,
means the county or district court that would
have jurisdiction if the claim were against a
private person of full age and capacity, or, if
there is no such county or district court in the
province or the county or district court in the
province does not have such jurisdiction,
means the superior court of the province.
(2) Notwithstanding the Exchequer Court
Act, a claim against the Crown for a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars arising out of
any death or injury to the person or to
property resulting from the negligence of a
servant of the Crown while acting within the
scope of his duties or employment may be
heard and determined by the provincial court ,
and an appeal lies from the judgment of a
provincial court given in any proceedings
taken under this section as from a judgment
in similar proceedings between subject and
subject.
(3) No provincial court has jurisdiction to
entertain any proceedings taken by any
person under this Part if proceedings taken
by that person in the Exchequer Court of
Canada in respect of the same cause of action,
whether taken before or after the proceedings
are taken in the provincial court, are pending.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 8.
Transfer to Exchequer Court

**9.** (j) Where in any proceedings in a
provincial court under this Part a defence or
counterclaim of the Crown involves a matter
the jurisdiction of the provincial
the defence or counterclaim does not
the competence or the duty of the
court to dispose of the whole matter
in controversy so far as it relates to the
demand of the plaintiff and the defence
thereto ; but no relief exceeding that which
the court has jurisdiction to administer shall
be given to the Crown upon the counterclaim.
(2) In any case mentioned in subsection (1),
a judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada,
on the application of any party to the
proceedings in the provincial court, may order
that the whole proceedings be transferred
from the provincial court to the Exchequer
Court, and any proceedings so transferred
shall be continued in the Exchequer Court as
though they were by way of petition of right.
(3) Where proceedings have been taken
under this Part in a provincial court, a judge
of the Exchequer Court of Canada may, on
the application of the Crown, order that the
proceedings be transferred to the Exchequer
Court in any case where the judge is satisfied
that
  * (_a_) the validity of an Act of the Parliament
of Canada or of the legislature of any
province- or any order, rule or regulation
thereunder is called in question ;
(6) the proceedings involve a matter by
which rights in the future of the parties
may be affected ;
  * (_c_) proceedings in respect of the same cause
of action or in respect of a cause of action
arising out of the same matter are pending
in the Exchequer Court ; or
  * (_d_) for any other reason it is just and
expedient to do so ;
and any proceedings so transferred shall be
continued in the Exchequer Court as though
they were by way of petition of right. 1952-
53, c. 30, s. 9.
Procedure

**10.** (1) Except in the case of a counterclaim,
no proceedings shall be commenced under
this Part unless the claimant has at least
ninety days before the commencement of the
served on the Deputy Attorney
of Canada or sent to him by registered
a notice of the claim together with
details of the facts upon which the
is based to enable him to investigate it.
(2) Proceedings against the Crown under
this Part may be taken in the name of the
Attorney General of Canada or, in the case
of an agency of the Crown against which
proceedings are by Act of Parliament author
ized to be taken in the name of the agency,
in the name of that agency.
(3) Where proceedings under this Part are
taken against the Crown in the name of the
Attorney General of Canada the writ of
summons or other instrument originating the
proceedings shall be served on the Crown by
serving it on the Deputy Attorney General of
Canada or sending it to him by registered
post, and where proceedings under this Part
are taken against the Crown in the name of
an agency of the Crown the writ of summons
or other instrument originating the proceed
ings shall be served on the Crown by sen-ing
it on the chief executive officer of the agency
or sending it to him by registered post. 1952-
53, c. 30, s. 10.
1 1. In any proceedings against the Crown
under this Part the Crown may raise
  * (_a_) any defence that would be available if
the proceedings were a suit or action in a
competent court between subject and sub
ject, and
(6) any defence that would be available if
the proceedings were by way of petition of
right in the Exchequer Court of Canada.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 11.

**12.** In any proceedings against the Crown
under this Part judgment shall not be entered
against the Crown in default of appearance
or pleading without the leave of the court to
be obtained on application of which at least
fourteen clear days notice has been given to
the Deputy Attorney General of Canada.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 12.

**13.** In any proceedings against the Crown
this Part, trial shall be without a jury.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 13.

**14.** Except as otherwise provided by this
Act or the regulations, the rules of practice
and procedure of the court in which proceed
ings under this Part are taken apply in those
proceedings. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 14.

## PART III

## GENERAL
Costs

**15.** In any proceedings under this Act costs
may be awarded to or against the Crown.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 15.

**16.** In any proceedings under this Act costs
awarded to the Crown shall not be disallowed
or reduced upon taxation merely because the
solicitor or counsel who earned such costs, or
in respect of whose services the costs are
charged, was a salaried officer of the Crown
performing such services in the discharge of
his duty and remunerated therefor by his
salary, or for that or any other reason not
entitled to recover any costs from the Crown
in respect of the services so rendered ; but the
costs recovered by or on behalf of the Crown
in any such case shall be paid into the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. 1952-53, c. 30, s.

**16.**
Payment of Judgment

**17.** (1) No execution shall issue on a
judgment against the Crown given under this
Act.
(2) Upon receipt of a certificate of judgment
against the Crown issued pursuant to the
regulations the Minister of Finance may
authorize the payment out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund of awarded the
Interest

**18.** The Minister of Finance may allow
and cause to be paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund to any person entitled by a
judgment under this Act to any money or
costs, interest thereon at a rate not exceeding
four per cent from the date of the judgment
until the money or costs are paid and may
authorize the payment of such interest out of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 1952-53, c.
30, s. 18.
Prescription and Limitation

**19.** (1) Unless otherwise provided in this
Act, the laws relating to prescription and the
limitation of actions in force in any province
between subject and subject apply to any
proceedings against the Crown under this Act
in respect of any cause of action arising in
such province, and proceedings against the
Crown under this Act in respect of a cause of
action arising otherwise than in a province
shall be taken within and not after six years
after the cause of action arose.
(2) In any proceedings under this Act, for
the purposes of any laws relating to prescrip
tion and the limitation of actions, the day on
which the notice mentioned in subsection
10(1) was served on or received by the Deputy
Attorney General of Canada shall be deemed
to be the day on which the proceedings were
commenced, if the proceedings are commenced
within one hundred days after such notice
was so served or received. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 19.
Application of Statutes to Crown

**20.** Except as otherwise expressly provided
in this Act, nothing in this Act affects any
rule of evidence or any presumption relating
to the extent to which the Crown is bound by
an Act of Parliament. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 20.
Mode of Service

**21.** Where by this Act a writ, notice or
other document is authorized or required to
be served on or sent by registered post to the
Deputy Attorney General of Canada, it shall
served or sent by leaving it at or sending
it by registered post to the office of the
Attorney General of Canada, and
of a document by registered post on
the Deputy Attorney General of Canada is
not effected until the document has been
received at the office of the Deputy Attorney
General of Canada. 1952-53, c. 30, s. 21.
Regulations

**22.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing rules of practice and proce
dure in respect of proceedings taken in
provincial courts under Part II, including
tariffs of fees and costs ;
  * (_b_) prescribing forms for the purposes of
this Act ;
  * (_c_) respecting the issue of certificates of
judgments against the Crown under this
Act;
  * (_d_) making applicable to any proceedings
taken in provincial courts under Part II all
or any of the rules of evidence applicable
in similar proceedings in those courts as
between subject and subject ; and
  * (_e_) generally for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect. 1952-53, c.
30, s. 22.
Agencies of the Crown

**23.** Subsections 7(1) and 8(1) and (2) do not
apply to or in respect of actions, suits or other
legal proceedings in respect of a cause of
action coming within section 3 brought or
taken in a court other than the Exchequer
Court of Canada against an agency of the
Crown in accordance with any Act of
Parliament that authorizes such actions, suits
or other legal proceedings to be so brought or
taken; but all the remaining provisions of
this Act apply to and in respect of such
actions, suits or other legal proceedings,
subject to the following modifications :
  * (_a_) any such action, suit or other legal
proceeding shall, for the purposes of this
Act, be deemed to have been taken in a
provincial court under Part II ; and
  * (_b_) any money awarded to any person by a
judgment in any such action, suit or other
legal proceeding, or the interest thereon
allowed by the Minister of Finance under
section 18, may be paid out of any funds
administered by that agency. 1952-53, c. 30,
s. 23.
Operation of Act

**24.** (1) No proceedings shall be taken
against the Crown under this Act in respect
of any act, omission, transaction, matter or
thing that occurred or existed before the 14th
day of May 1953.
(2) No proceedings shall be taken against
the Crown in respect of a claim under
paragraph 3(1X&) in respect of any property
unless that paragraph was in force with respect
to that property at the time the claim arose.
1952-53, c. 30, s. 24.
