
# CHAPTER C-39
An Act respecting currency and the Exchange
Fund

## SHORT TITLE
l. This Act may be cited as the Currency
and Exchange Act. R.S., c. 315, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance ;
"subsidiary coin" means a coin other than a
gold coin. R.S., c. 315, s. 2.

## PARTI

## CURRENCY AND COINAGE
Monetary Unit

**3.** (j) T^g monetary unit of Canada is the
dollar.
(2) The denominations of money in the
currency of Canada are dollars, cents and
mills, the cent being one one-hundredth of a
dollar and the mill one-tenth of a cent. R.S.,
c. 3l5,s. 3.
Gold Coins

**4.** Where the par value of the dollar has
been established by or under an Act of the
Parliament of Canada and is being main
tained, the Governor in Council may by
authorize the issue of gold coins
the denominations and standards of
fineness specified in Part I of the schedule,
and the Governor in Council may, by such
proclamation, amend Part I of the schedule
by prescribing the standard weight and
remedy allowance for each coin specified
therein, but the standard weight so prescribed
for a coin shall be such that the value of the
gold contained therein is equal to the amount
that appears on the coin as the denomination
thereof. R.S., c. 315, s. 4.
Subsidiary Coins

**5.** (i) Every subsidiary coin made under
the authority of the Royal Canadian Mint Act
shall be of a description and of the standards
applicable thereto specified in Part II of the
schedule to this Act.
(2) The Governor in Council may by
proclamation amend Part II of the schedule
by prescribing denominations of subsidiary
coins other than those specified therein ; a
coin of a denomination so prescribed shall be
of a composition specified in Part II of the
schedule and of the fineness specified in Part
II of the schedule for coins of that composition
and shall be of a standard weight that bears
the same proportion to the weight specified
in Part II of the schedule as the denomination
of the coin bears to the denomination of coins
of like composition specified in Part II of the
schedule.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), where
the Governor in Council by reason of a
shortage of metals used in making any of the
subsidiary coins specified in Part II of the
schedule deems it advisable in the public
interest to curtail the use of such metals in
making coins, he may by proclamation
authorize the issue of a subsidiary coin of a
denomination mentioned in Part II of the
schedule and amend Part II of the schedule
by prescribing the composition, standard
weight and standard fineness thereof and the
remedy allowance therefor.
(4) Where more than one composition, set
of standards and remedy allowance is specified
for a denomination of subsidiary coins set out
in Part II of the schedule, the Governor in
Council may from time to time by proclama
tion specify which of the compositions, with
its applicable standards and remedy allow
ance, shall be used in the making of subsidiary
of that denomination. R.S., c. 315, s. 5;
1967-68, c. 26, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.
Current Coins

**6.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), each of the
following coins shall pass current for the
amount in the currency of Canada that
appears on the coin as the denomination
thereof, namely,
  * (_a_) a coin that was issued under the
authority of the Crown for circulation in
Canada, and
(6) a coin that was issued under the
authority of the Crown for circulation in
any province of Canada before it became
part of Canada and immediately before the
15th day of October 1952 was current and
legal tender in Canada for the amount in
the currency of Canada that appears on the
coin as the denomination thereof.
(2) No coin that is bent, mutilated or
defaced, or that has been reduced in weight
otherwise than by abrasion through ordinary
use, shall pass current. R.S., c. 315, s. 6.
Legal Tender

**7.** (1) Subject to this section, a tender of
payment of money is a legal tender if it is
made
  * (_a_) in gold coins issued under the authority
of section 4 ;
(6) in subsidiary coins that are current
under the provisions of section 6 ; or
  * (_c_) in notes issued by the Bank of Canada
pursuant to the Bank of Canada Act
intended for circulation in Canada.
(2) A tender of payment of money in coins
specified in subsection (1) is a legal tender
  * (_a_) in the case of gold coins, for payment
of any amount ;
(6) in the case of coins of the denomination
of ten cents or greater but not exceeding
one dollar, for payment of an amount not
exceeding ten dollars, but for no greater
amount ;
  * (_c_) in the case of coins of the denomination
of five cents or greater but less than ten
cents, for payment of an amount not
exceeding five dollars, but for no greater
amount ; and
  * (_d_) in the case of coins of the denomination
of one cent or greater, but less than five
cents, for payment of an amount not
exceeding twenty-five cents, but for no
greater amount.
(3) Where more than one amount is payable
by one person to another on the same day,
whether under one or more obligations,
subsection (2) applies as though the total of
the amounts payable were one amount due
and payable on that day.
(4) A coin described in subsection 6(2) or a
coin that has been called in is not legal
tender. R.S., c. 315, s. 7; 1966-67, c. 88, s. 20.

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
proclamation
  * (_a_) prescribe the dimensions and design of
any coin ;
(6) amend the schedule by altering the
remedy allowance for coins of any denomi
nation;
  * (_c_) amend the schedule by prescribing or
altering the least current weight of coins of
any denomination; and
  * (_d_) call in coins of any date and denomina
tion.
(2) The Governor in Council may make
regulations for the redemption by the Minister
of coins that are or that have at any time
been current in Canada. R.S., c. 315, s. 8;
1967-68, c. 26, s. 2.
Counterfeit Coins

**9.** Every officer employed in the collection
of the revenue in Canada shall cut, break or
deface or cause to be cut, broken or defaced
every piece of counterfeit coin that is paid to
him in payment of an amount payable to Her
Majesty, and shall forthwith forward the
counterfeit coin to the Minister of Finance.
R.S., c. 315, s. 9.
Melting Coins

**10.** (1) Except under and in pursuance of
as currency any coin that is for the time
current and legal tender in Canada.
(2) Every person who violates subsection (1)
or any condition attached to a licence granted
under subsection (1) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred
and fifty dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding twelve months, or to both,
and in addition to any fine or imprisonment
imposed the court may order that the articles
by means of or in relation to which the
offence was committed be forfeited to Her
Majesty. R.S., c. 315, s. 10; 1967-68, c. 26, s. 3.
Accounts, Contracts, etc.
n. All public accounts throughout Canada
shall be kept in the currency of Canada ; and
any statement as to money or money value
in any indictment or legal proceeding shall
be stated in the currency of Canada. R.S., c.
315, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Every contract, sale, payment, bill,
note, instrument and security for money and
every transaction, dealing, matter and thing
whatever relating to money, or involving the
payment of or the liability to pay any money,
that is made, executed or entered into, done
or had, shall be made, executed, entered into,
done and had according to the currency of
Canada, unless it is made, executed, entered
into, done or had, according to the currency
of a country other than Canada.
(2) Every contract, sale, payment , bill, note,
instrument and , security r tor money and i every
transaction, dealing, matter and thing relating
to money or involving the liability to pay
any money, that was made, executed or
entered into, done or had before the 15th day
of October 1952, so far as anything remains to
be or may be executed, done or had thereunder
on or after that date, shall be construed and
operates as though this Act had not been
passed. R.S., c. 315, s. 12.

**13.** All sums mentioned in dollars and
the Minister, known as the Exchange Fund
Account, established pursuant to The
Exchange Fund Act, chapter 60 of the Statutes
of Canada, 1935, to aid in the control and
protection of the external value of the
Canadian monetary unit, and continued by
The Foreign Exchange Control Act, chapter 53
of the Statutes of Canada, 1946, is further
continued, and all gold, currency, deposits
and securities purchased or acquired with
money out of the Account by or on behalf of
the Minister and held by him or on his behalf
for the Account shall continue to be so held.
(2) The Minister may from time to time
purchase or acquire, or cause to be purchased
or acquired, with money in the Exchange
Fund Account,
  * (_a_) gold;
(6) currency of the United States ; deposits
in currency of the United States held in the
name of the Minister with the Bank of
Canada or any bank designated by the
Minister ; Treasury bills or other obligations
of the United States ;
  * (_c_) currencies of any country other than
Canada or the United States that are freely
convertible into gold or United States
dollars; and deposits in such currencies
held in the name of the Minister with the
Bank of Canada or any bank designated by
the Minister ;
  * (_d_) securities of or guaranteed by the
Government of Canada ;
  * (_e_) securities of the International Monetary
Fund, maturing not later than five years
from the date of issue thereof;
(/) securities of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, maturing
not later than two years from the date of
issue thereof ; and
  * (_g_) special drawing rights in the Interna
tional Monetary Fund (which shall be
deemed for the purposes of this Part to be
securities).
(3) The Minister may sell or cause to be
any gold, currency, deposits or securities
or acquired by him or on his behalf
at any time with moneys in, or held by or on
his behalf for, the Exchange Fund Account,
and the proceeds of such sales, together with
all amounts received by him upon the
maturity of any such securities and all
earnings and interest from the said gold,
currency, deposits and securities or dealings
therein or therewith, shall be credited to the
Account. R.S., c. 315, s. 22; 1963, c. 34, s. 1;
1967-68, c. 26, s. 5; 1968-69, c. 26, s. 14.

**15.** The Minister may authorize advances
to the Exchange Fund Account out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund on such terms
and conditions as the Governor in Council
may prescribe. R.S., c. 315, s. 23.

**16.** The amount of any
  * (_a_) interest or discount on securities credited
to the Exchange Fund Account in a calendar
year,
(6) net profit for a calendar year from
trading operations in foreign exchange,
gold and securities, and
  * (_c_) net profit for a calendar year from the
net valuation adjustments on unmatched
purchases or sales of foreign exchange, gold
and securities during that year,
less any amounts paid out of the Account
pursuant to section 20, shall be paid into the
Consolidated Revenue Fund within three
months after the end of the year. 1967-68, c.
26,s.6.

**17.** Within five months after the 31st day
of December in each year, the Minister shall
report to Parliament on the operations of the
Exchange Fund Account for the twelve
months ending on the said 31st day of
December, or, if Parliament is not then sitting,
he shall so report within thirty days after the
commencement of the next ensuing session.
R.S.,c. 315, s. 26.

**18.** (1) The Financial Administration Act
does not apply to the Exchange Fund Account
or operations or transactions in connection
therewith.
(2) An annual audit of the Exchange Fund
Account and of the transactions in connection
therewith shall be made by the Auditor
General of Canada in such manner as he
thinks proper with a view to ascertaining
whether the transactions in connection with
the Account have been in accordance with
this Act, and he shall certify to Parliament
that, in his opinion, having regard to such
examination, the transactions in connection
with the Account have or have not been in
accordance with this Act, and that the records
of the Account do or do not show truly and
clearly the state of the Account. R.S., c. 315,
s. 27.

**19.** (1) No person employed in the service
of Her Majesty or the Bank of Canada shall
communicate to any person not legally
entitled thereto under this Act or by direction
of the Minister, or allow any such person to
have access to, or any information or written
statement with respect to, the Exchange Fund
Account or the operation thereof.
(2) Every person who violates this section
is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars, or to impris
onment for a term not exceeding six months,
or to both. R.S., c. 315, s. 28.

**20.** Any expenses incurred in the operations
of the Exchange Fund Account shall be paid
out of the Account. R.S., c. 315, s. 29.
