
# CHAPTER C-4
An Act to establish a Canada Manpower and
Immigration Council

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Canada
Manpower and Immigration Council Act. 1967-
68, c. 13, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"board" means an advisory board established
under this Act ;
"board member" means a member of a board ;
"Council" means the Canada Manpower and
Immigration Council established by this
Act;
"Council member" means a member of the
Council ;
"Department" means the Department of
Manpower and Immigration ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Manpower
and Immigration. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 2.

## PARTI

## CANADA MANPOWER AND

## IMMIGRATION COUNCIL

**3.** There shall be a council to be called the
Canada Manpower and Immigration Council,
consisting of a Chairman and not more than

**4.** (1) The Chairman of the Council shall
be appointed to hold office during pleasure
for a term not exceeding three years.
(2) The Council members, other than the
Chairman of the Council and the chairmen
of the advisory boards, shall be appointed
after consultation with such representative
organizations as the Governor in Council
deems appropriate, to hold office during
pleasure for such term, not exceeding three
years, as will ensure as far as possible the
expiration in any one year of the terms of
appointment of fewer than half of the
members so appointed.
(3) The chairmen of the advisory boards
shall be members of the Council during their
terms as chairmen of their respective boards.
(4) The Chairman of the Council or any
other Council member is eligible for re-
appointment to the Council in the same or
another capacity. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Council may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, elect one of its
members other than the chairman of a board
to be Vice-Chairman of the Council.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the Chairman of the Council or if the
office of Chairman is vacant, the Vice-
Chairman has and may exercise and perform
all the duties and functions of the Chairman.
1967-68, c. 13, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Chairman of the Council shall
be paid such remuneration and expenses as
are authorized by the Governor in Council.
(2) The Council members, other than the
Chairman, shall serve without remuneration
but each member is entitled to be paid
reasonable travelling and living expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his
duties in connection with the work of the
Council, and may, with the approval of the
Minister, be paid a per diem allowance fixed
by the Governor in Council for each day he
is necessarily absent from his ordinary place
of residence in connection with such work.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) a Coun
member other than the Chairman may, for
any period during which he performs, with
the approval of the Governor in Council, any
duties on behalf of the Council in addition to
his ordinary duties as a member thereof, be
paid such remuneration therefor as may be
authorized by the Governor in Council. 1967-
68, c. 13, s. 6.

**7.** In the event of the absence or incapacity
of any Council member, the Governor in
Council may appoint a temporary substitute
member to act in his stead during such absence
or incapacity upon such terms as the Governor
in Council may prescribe. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 7.
Meetings of Council

**8.** Subject to section 5 the Chairman of the
Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 8.

**9.** The Council shall meet at least twice a
year in the city of Ottawa or at such other
place as the Minister may approve, and may
meet more often with the approval of or at
the request of the Minister. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 9.

**10.** The Council may make by-laws for the
regulation of its proceedings and generally
for the conduct of its activities, and may
provide therein for the delegation of any of
its duties to any committee or subcommittee
of its members. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 10.
Duties of Council

**11.** It is the function of the Council to
advise the Minister on all matters to which
the duties, powers and functions of the
Minister extend, and in particular it shall be
the duty of the Council
  * (_a_) to advise the Minister on all matters
pertaining to the effective utilization and
development of manpower resources in
Canada, including immigrants to Canada
and their adjustment to Canadian life;
  * (_b_) to refer those matters that the Minister
requests or that the Council deems appro
priate, to the appropriate board for a
report ;
  * (_c_) to advise the Minister with respect to
an} r report received by the Council from a
board ;
  * (_d_) to advise the Minister on the establish
ment of local and regional manpower
committees pursuant to Part III; and
  * (_e_) to advise the Minister on such other
matters as the Minister may refer to the
Council for its consideration. 1967-68, c. 13,
s. 11.

## PART II

## ADVISORY BOARDS

**12.** (1) The Minister shall establish
  * (_a_) an Advisory Board on Adult Occupa
tional Training;
(6) an Advisory Board on the Adjustment
of Immigrants ;
  * (_c_) an Advisory Board on the Co-ordination
of Rehabilitation Services for Disabled
Persons; and
  * (_d_) an Advisory Board on Manpower and
Immigration Research.
(2) The Minister may, from time to time,
establish additional advisory boards as he
deems appropriate to deal with any subject
within his responsibilities as Minister.
(3) Each advisory board shall consist of a
chairman and not more than eleven other
members to be appointed by the Minister as
provided in section 13. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The chairman of a board shall be
appointed to hold office during pleasure for
a term not exceeding three years.
(2) The board members, other than the
chairman of a board, shall be appointed after
consultation with such representative organi
zations as the Minister deems appropriate, to
hold office during pleasure for such term, not
exceeding three years, as will ensure as far as
possible the expiration in any one year of the
terms of appointment of fewer than half of
the members so appointed.
(3) The chairman of a board or any board
member is eligible for re-appointment to the
or any other board in the same or
another capacity. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 13.

**14.** (1) A board may, with the approval of
the Minister, elect one of its members to be
of the board.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the chairman of a board, or if the office of
chairman is vacant, the vice-chairman has
and may exercise and perform all the duties
and functions of the chairman. 1967-68, c. 13,
s. 14.

**15.** (1) The chairman of a board shall be
paid such remuneration and expenses as are
fixed by the Minister with the approval of
the Treasury Board.
(2) The board members, other than a
chairman, shall serve without remuneration
but each member is entitled to be paid
reasonable travelling and living expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his
duties in connection with the work of a board,
and may, with the approval of the Minister,
be paid a per diem allowance fixed by the
Minister with the approval of the Treasury
Board for each day he is necessarily absent
from his ordinary place of residence in
connection with such work. 1967-68, c. 13,
s. 15.

**16.** In the event of the absence or incapacity
of any board member the Minister may
appoint a temporary substitute member to act
in his stead during such absence or incapacity
upon such terms as the Minister may prescribe.
1967-68, c. 13, s. 16.
Meetings of Boards

**17.** Subject to section 14 the chairman of a
board shall preside at all meetings of the
board. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 17.

**18.** A board shall meet at least once a year
at such place as the chairman, with the
approval of the Minister, may select and may
meet more often if the chairman, with the
approval of the Minister, deems it necessary
to do so. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 18.

**19.** A board may make by-laws for the
regulation of its proceedings and generally
for the conduct of its activities, and may
provide therein for the delegation of any of
its duties to any committee or subcommittee
its members. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 19.
Duties of Boards

**20.** (1) The Advisory Board on Adult
Occupational Training shall consider and
report to the Council on any matter within
the Minister s responsibilities in relation to
adult occupational training in Canada.
(2) The Advisory Board on the Adjustment
of Immigrants shall consider and report to
the Council on any matter within the
Minister s responsibilities in relation to the
adjustment of immigrants to Canadian life.
(3) The Advisory Board on the Co-ordina
tion of Rehabilitation Services for Disabled
Persons shall consider and report to the
Council on any matter within the Minister s
responsibilities in relation to the coordination
of rehabilitation services for disabled persons
in Canada.
(4) The Advisory Board on Manpower and
Immigration Research shall consider and
report to the Council on any matter within
the Minister s responsibilities in relation to
manpower and immigration research in
Canada.
(5) Any advisory board established by the
Minister under this Part shall consider and
report to the Council on
  * (_a_) all matters within the terms of reference
of the board as established by the Minister ;
and
(6) any further matters referred to the board
by the Council. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 20.

## PART III

## REGIONAL AND LOCAL MANPOWER

## COMMITTEES

**21.** (1) The Minister may establish such
regional and local manpower committees as
tees established under subsection (1) shall
include members chosen after consultation
such representative organizations as the
Minister deems appropriate.
(3) Each member of a committee established
under subsection (1) shall be paid such
remuneration and travelling allowances in
connection with the work of his committee as
are approved by the Treasury Board. 1967-68,
c. 13,s.21.

## PART IV

## GENERAL

**22.** The Minister may provide the council,
or a board, or any regional or local manpower
committee, with such professional, technical,
secretarial and other assistance as they may
require, but the provision of such assistance
otherwise than from the public service of
Canada is subject to approval by the Treasury
Board. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 22.

**23.** The Minister shall make available to
the Council or a board, or any regional or
local manpower committee such information
within his possession or otherwise available to
him as the Council, board or committee
reasonably requires for the proper discharge
of its functions. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 23.
Financial

**24.** All expenditures for the purpose of this
Act shall be paid out of moneys appropriated
by Parliament therefor. 1967-68, c. 13, s. 24.
