Commercial Corporation Act. R.S., c. 35, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the President and the directors
of the Corporation ;
"by-law" means a by-law made under section
11;
"Corporation" means the Canadian Commer
cial Corporation established by section 3 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Supply and
Services ;
"President" means the President of the
Corporation. R.S., c. 35, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 103.

**3.** (1) There is hereby established, for the
purposes set forth in section 4, a corporation
to be known as the Canadian Commercial
Corporation consisting of a President appoint
ed by the Governor in Council and holding
office during pleasure and not more than nine
or less than five directors all of whom shall
be appointed by the Governor in Council and
hold office during pleasure.
(2) The President s remuneration, if he is
not a member of the public service of Canada,
shall be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(3) The Corporation is for all its purposes
an agent of Her Majesty and its powers may
be exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
R.S., c. 35,s.3.

**4.** (1) The Corporation is established for
following purposes :
  * (_a_) to assist in the development of trade
between Canada and other nations ;
  * (_b_) to assist persons in Canada
  * (_i_) to obtain goods and commodities from
outside Canada, and
  * (_ii_) to dispose of goods and commodities
that are available for export from
Canada ;
  * (_c_) to exercise on behalf and under the
direction of the Minister any powers or
functions vested in the Minister by any
other Act that authorizes the Minister to
employ the Corporation to exercise them ;
and
  * (_d_) to exercise any other powers or functions
conferred upon it by any other Act or for
the exercise of which it may be employed
under any other Act.
(2) The Corporation shall comply with any
general or special direction given by the
Governor in Council or the Minister with
reference to carrying out its purposes. R.S., c.
35, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Corporation may do such things
as it deems expedient for, or conducive to,
the attainment of the purposes set forth in
section 4; and, for greater certainty, but not
so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing,
the Corporation may carry on the business of
  * (_a_) importing goods or commodities into
Canada ; and
  * (_b_) exporting goods or commodities from
Canada, either as principal or as agent, in
such manner and to such extent as it deems
advisable to achieve the said purposes.
(2) The generality of subsection (1) is not
restricted by any provision of this Act other
than section 4. R.S., c. 35, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Corporation may employ such
officers or employees as it deems necessary to
carry out this Act and may determine their
conditions of employment and their remuner
ation, which shall be paid by the Corporation.
(2) The Corporation has, under the Minis
ter, the control and supervision of the officers
and employees employed under this Act. R.S.,
c. 35, s. 6.
(2) The Corporation may provide office
accommodation, supplies and equipment for
the Board and persons employed under this
Act. R.S., c. 35, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Minister of Finance shall, on
the request of the Minister, from time to time
deposit to the credit of the Corporation in
the Bank of Canada or in a chartered bank
designated by the Minister
  * (_a_) an amount or amounts not exceeding in
the aggregate ten million dollars to be paid
out of unappropriated moneys in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund at any time
while this Act is in force ; and
(6) any other advances or grants to the
Corporation that are otherwise authorized
to be made by Parliament from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(2) The Governor in Council may from
time to time authorize the Minister of Finance
to advance out of any unappropriated moneys
in the Consolidated Revenue Fund amounts
to the Corporation by way of loan on such
terms and conditions as the Governor in
Council may determine, but the aggregate of
the loans made under this subsection out
standing at any time shall not exceed ten
million dollars.
(3) Subject to repayment of the loans made
under subsection (2), the Corporation shall
retain, for the purposes of this Act, all moneys
received by it in the course of its business.
(4) In any transactions entered into by the
Corporation under any provisions of this Act
for or on behalf of or for the purposes of any
person or any department or agency of the
Government of Canada, the Corporation and
such person, department or agency may agree
upon the amounts to be paid to the
Corporation to compensate it for the costs
and proportioned operating expenses incurred
by it in such transactions, and such compen
sation may be recovered by the Corporation
and shall be paid to it by such person,
department or agency.
constituted.
(6) The Corporation shall establish and
maintain an accounting system satisfactory
to the Minister and shall, wherever required
by him, render detailed accounts of its receipts
and expenditures for such period or to such
day as he designates, and all books or records
of accounts, bank books and papers of the
Corporation shall at all times be open to the
inspection of the Minister or such person as
he may designate.
(7) The accounts of the Corporation shall
be audited by the Auditor General of Canada
and his report shall be included in the annual
report of the Corporation.
(8) Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this section the Corporation shall, if the
Minister so directs, pay to the Receiver
General any part of the moneys administered
by it that the Minister considers to be in
excess of the amount required for the purposes
of this Act.
(9) The Minister of Finance shall, on the
request of the Minister, from time to time
deposit to the credit of the Corporation in
the Bank of Canada or in a chartered bank
designated by the Minister, out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, all or any part
of the moneys paid to the Receiver General
under subsection (8), if in the opinion of the
Minister such moneys are again required for
the purposes of this Act. R.S., c. 35, s. 8.

**9.** The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, contract in its corporate name
without specific reference to Her Majesty.
R.S., c. 35, s. 9.
1Q. Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation, in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
have jurisdiction if the Corporation
not an agent of Her Majesty. R.S., c. 35,

**10.**

**11.** The Corporation may, subject to the
of the Governor in Council, make
by-laws as it may deem necessary to
out this Act. R.S., c. 35, s. 11.

**12.** (i) The Corporation shall act by reso-
lution of the Board, which shall meet from
time to time as required by by-law, or on
reasonable notice given by the President or
any two directors at such convenient place as
may be specified in the notice.
(2) The President, or, in his absence, such
person as may be appointed under the by
laws or by the directors, shall be chairman of
the Board.
(3) Three members of the Board constitute
a quorum. R.S., c. 35, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Corporation shall, as soon as
possible after the 31st day of March in each
year, and in any event within three months
thereof, submit to the Minister an annual
report of its affairs and operations during the
twelve-month period ending on the 31st day
of March, containing its financial statements
and such information as is required to be
furnished to shareholders by a company
incorporated under the Canada Corporations
Act, and such other information as the
Minister may prescribe and the Minister shall
forthwith lay the report before Parliament, if
Parliament is then in session, or within fifteen
days of the commencement of the next session
of Parliament.
(2) The Corporation shall, in addition to
making an annual report under subsection (1),
make to the Minister such other reports of its
affairs and operations or of any particular
transaction or part of its business as the
Minister may require. R.S., c. 35, s. 13.

**14.** (1) Where a person who was a civil
servant or an employee in the Public Service
immediately before his employment under
this Act is retired from employment under
this Act, he may, in accordance with the
Public Service Employment Act, be assigned to
a position in the Public Service of the class
from which he was so retired or for which he
is qualified.
(2) A person employed under this Act, who
