
# CHAPTER C-7
Act to provide for the establishment of a
dairy commission for Canada

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Canadian
Dairy Commission Act. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
Commission" means the Canadian Dairy
Commission established by this Act ;
dairy product" means milk, cream, butter,
cheese, condensed milk, evaporated milk,
milk powder, dry milk, ice-cream, malted
milk, sherbet, or any other product manu
factured wholly or mainly from milk ;
market" means to market in interprovincial
or export trade ;
"milk" means milk from cows and "cream"
means cream derived from such milk ;
Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"place" includes any vehicle, vessel, railway
car or aircraft ;
"regulated product" means a dairy product
the marketing of which is regulated or
prohibited by regulations made under this
Act. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 2.

## CANADIAN DAIRY COMMISSION

**3.** (1) There shall be a corporation to be
known as the Canadian Dairy Commission
consisting of three members appointed by the
in Council to hold office during
(2) The Governor in Council shall designate
of the members to be Chairman of the
and one of the members to be
Vice-Chairman of the Commission.
(3) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Commission.
(4) Each member of the Commission may
be paid such salary or other remuneration as
is fixed by the Governor in Council, and may
be paid such travelling and living expenses
incurred by him in connection with the
performance of his duties as are fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(5) A member ceases to hold office upon
reaching the age of seventy years.
(6) If any member of the Commission is
absent or unable to act, the Governor in
Council may appoint a temporary substitute
member for such term and upon such
conditions as the Governor in Council pre
scribes.
(7) The head office of the Commission shall
be in the city of Ottawa, but meetings of the
Commission may be held at such other places
as the Commission may decide. 1966-67, c. 34,
s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Commission is for all purposes
of this Act an agent of Her Majesty, and its
powers under this Act may be exercised by it
only as such agent.
(2) The Commission may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Commission.
(3) Property acquired by the Commission
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Commission.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Commission on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Commission in the
name of the Commission in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Commission
were not an agent of Her Majesty. 1966-67, c.
34, s. 4.

## CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE

**5.** (1) The Minister shall appoint a Con
sultative Committee consisting of a chairman
and eight other members.
(2) Each of the members of the Consultative
Committee shall be appointed for a term not
exceeding three years, except that of those
members first appointed three shall be
appointed for a term of two years, three shall
be appointed for a term of three years and
three shall be appointed for a term of four
years. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Consultative Committee shall
meet at such times as are fixed by the
Commission and shall advise the Commission
on such matters relating to the production
and marketing of dairy products as are
referred to it by the Commission.
(2) The members of the Consultative Com
mittee may be paid for their services such
remuneration and expenses as are fixed by
the Governor in Council. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 6.

## STAFF

**7.** (1) The Commission may
  * (_a_) appoint such officers and employees as
are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Commission ; and
(6) prescribe the duties of such officers and
employees and, subject to the approval of
the Treasury Board, prescribe the conditions
of their employment.
(2) The officers and employees of the
Commission appointed as provided in subsec
tion (1) shall be paid such salaries and
expenses as are fixed by the Commission with
the approval of the Treasury Board. 1966-67,
c. 34, s. 7.

## OBJECTS OF THE COMMISSION

**8.** The objects of the Commission are to
provide efficient producers of milk and cream
with the opportunity of obtaining a fair
return for their labour and investment and to
provide consumers of dairy products with a
continuous and adequate supply of dairy
products of high quality. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 8.

## POWERS OF COMMISSION

**9.** (1) Subject to and in accordance with
regulations made under this Act, the
may
  * (_a_) purchase any dairy product and pack
age, process, store, ship, insure, import,
export, or sell or otherwise dispose of any
dairy product purchased by it ;
(6) make payments for the benefit of
producers of milk and cream for the purpose
of stabilizing the price of those products,
which payments may be made on the basis
of volume, quality or on such other basis as
the Commission deems appropriate ;
  * (_c_) make investigations into any matter
relating to the production, processing or
marketing of any dairy product, including
the cost of producing, processing or market
ing that product ;
  * (_d_) undertake and assist in the promotion
of the use of dairy products, the improve
ment of the quality and variety thereof and
the publication of information in relation
thereto ; and
  * (_e_) do all such acts and things as are
necessary or incidental to the exercise of
any of its powers or the carrying out of any
of its functions under this Act.
(2) For the purpose of carrying out any
investigation under paragraph (l)(c), the
Commission has all the powers of a commis
sioner appointed under Part I of the Inquiries
Act.
(3) The Commission may make such rules
as it deems necessary for the regulation of its
proceedings, for the fixing of a quorum for
any of its meetings and generally for the
conduct of its activities under this Act. 1966-
67, c. 34,s.9.

## DUTIES OF COMMISSION

**10.** (1) Each year, following determination
by the Governor in Council pursuant to the
Agricultural Stabilization Act of the total
amount to be paid by the Agricultural
Stabilization Board to the Commission for
the purpose of stabilizing the price of milk
and cream, the Commission shall submit to
Minister an outline of the program by
it proposes to carry out its functions
under this Act for the following fiscal year.
(2) The Commission shall carry out its
under this Act in a manner that will
achieve its objects and meet its obligations
from the moneys available to it under this
Act. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 10.
1 1. In exercising its powers under this Act
or the regulations in relation to the importa
tion or exportation of any dairy product, the
Commission shall comply with any directions
from time to time given to it by the Governor
in Council or the Minister. 1966-67, c. 34,
s. 11.

## REGULATIONS

**12.** (l) The Governor in Council may make
regulations regulating the marketing of any
dairy product, including regulations
  * (_a_) providing for the marketing of any
dairy product on a quota basis ;
(6) designating the agencies through which
any regulated product shall be marketed ;
  * (_c_) providing for the issue of licences to
persons engaged in the production or
processing of a regulated product for market,
prescribing the fees therefor and providing
for cancellation or suspension of licences ;
  * (_d_) prohibiting persons from engaging in
the marketing of any dairy product, or any
class, variety or grade thereof, in whole or
in part except under the authority of a
licence ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the books and records to be
kept by persons engaged in the production
or processing of a regulated product for
market and the information to be furnished
by such persons ;
(/) authorizing the Commission to fix,
impose and collect levies or charges from
persons engaged in the marketing of any
dairy product or the production or process
ing of a regulated product for market and
for such purposes to classify such persons
into groups, fix the levies or charges payable
by the members of the different groups and
to use such levies or charges for the purpose
of carrying out its functions under this Act ;
  * (_g_) providing for the seizure and disposal
of any regulated product marketed in
contravention of any regulation made under
this section ; and
  * (_h_) generally, for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act.
(2) A regulation made under subsection (1)
may be general or restricted to a specific dairy
product, area, or group or class of persons.
1966-67, c. 34, s. 12.

**13.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations requiring the registration of
producers of milk and cream as a condition
of the making of any payment under
paragraph 9(1)(6) for the benefit of such
producers and prescribing the books and
records to be kept and the information to be
furnished to the Commission by or on behalf
of such producers. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 13.

## EXPENDITURES

**14.** All expenditures for salaries, travelling
expenses and expenses of administration,
excluding those that in the opinion of the
Minister are directly attributable to action
taken by the Commission to stabilize the price
of any dairy product, shall be paid out of
moneys appropriated by Parliament for the
purpose. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 14.

**15.** (1) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the Canadian Dairy Commis
sion Account, in this section called the
"Account".
(2) There shall be credited to the Account
  * (_a_) all moneys received by the Commission
from its operations ;
  * (_b_) all licence fees, levies and charges paid
to the Commission ;
  * (_c_) all loans made to the Commission by
the Agricultural Stabilization Board under
the Agricultural Stabilization Act for the
purpose of stabilizing the price of any dairy
product.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Con
solidated Revenue Fund and charged to the
Account
  * (_a_) all expenditures under this Act, except
those to be paid pursuant to section 14;
and
(6) all amounts paid to the Minister of
Finance in repayment of loans made to the
Commission pursuant to section 16 or as
interest on any such loans.
(4) No payment shall be made out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund under this
section in excess of the amount of the balance
to the credit of the Account. 1966-67, c. 34,
s. 15.

**16.** (1) At the request of the Commission,
the Minister of Finance may, out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, make loans to
the Commission on such terms and conditions
as are approved by the Governor in Council
for the purpose of exercising any of the
powers of the Commission described in
paragraph 9(l)(a).
(2) The total amount outstanding at any
time of loans made under subsection (1) shall
not exceed one hundred million dollars. 1966-
67, c. 34, s. 16.

## GENERAL

**17.** The Governor in Council may include
on the Import Control List established under
the Export and Import Permits Act any dairy
product the import of which he deems it
necessary to control for the purpose of
implementing any action taken under this
Act to support the price of that dairy product
or that has the effect of supporting the price
of that dairy product. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 17.

**18.** The Commission may appoint or
designate any person as an inspector for the
purposes of this Act. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 18.

**19.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
time enter any place in which he reasonably
there is any regulated product and
require any person to produce for
inspection or for the purpose of obtaining
copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any
books, records or documents relating to that
product.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished by the
Commission with a certificate of appointment
or designation and on entering any place
under subsection (1) shall, if so required,
produce the certificate to the person in charge
thereof.
(3) The owner or persons in charge of any
place described in subsection (1) and every
person found therein shall give an inspector
all reasonable assistance in his power to
enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and shall furnish
him with such information with respect to
any regulated product found therein as he
may reasonably require. 1966-67, c. 34, s. 19.

**20.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector in the carrying out of his duties
or functions under this Act or any regulation
made thereunder.
(2) No person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector engaged in carrying
out his duties or functions under this Act or
any regulation made thereunder. 1966-67, c.
34, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Every person who, or whose
employee or agent, contravenes or fails to
comply with any provision of this Act or any
regulation made thereunder is guilty of an
offence and liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both ; or
(6) on conviction upon indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for an offence under
this section it is sufficient proof of the offence
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified.
(3) Where it is established in any prosecu
tion for an offence under this section that the
offence was committed by an employee or
agent of the accused, it is a defence to the
accused that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence. 1966-
67, c. 34,s.21.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**22.** The Commission shall, within three
months after the termination of each fiscal
year, submit to the Minister in such form as
he may prescribe, an annual report of the
financial transactions and other actions taken
under this Act, and the Minister shall lay the
report before Parliament within fifteen days
after the receipt thereof or, if Parliament is
not then sitting, on any of the first fifteen
days next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
1966-67, c. 34, s. 22.
