
# CHAPTER C-8
An Act to provide for the establishment of a
Canadian Film Development Corpora
tion

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Canadian
Film Development Corporation Act. 1966-67, c.
78, s. 1.

## INTERPRET ATION

**2.** In this Act
"Canadian feature film" and "Canadian
feature film production" have the meanings
assigned by subsection 10(2) ;
"Corporation" means the Canadian Film
Development Corporation established by
section 3 ;
"film activity" means any activity in relation
to the production, distribution, projection
or exhibition of films ;
"film-maker" means a person creatively
engaged in film production ;
"film production" means the creative, artistic
and technical process of producing a film ;
"film technician" means a person engaged in
the technical or administrative aspects of
film production ;
"Minister" means the Secretary of State of
Canada. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 2.

## CANADIAN FILM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
be known as the Canadian Film Development
Corporation, consisting of six members to be
appointed by the Governor in Council as
provided in section 4 and the person holding
office from time to time as Government Film
Commissioner. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Each of the members of the Corpo
ration to be appointed as provided in this
section shall be appointed to hold office for a
term of five years, except that of those first
appointed three shall be appointed for a term
of three years and three shall be appointed
for a term of five years.
(2) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members of the Corporation to
serve as chairman of the Corporation during
pleasure who may receive a yearly honorarium
to be determined by the Governor in Council.
(3) A retiring member of the Corporation is
eligible for re-appointment.
(4) When a member ceases to be a member
before the end of the term for which he was
appointed, the Governor in Council shall
appoint a person to be a member for the
remainder of that term. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 4.

**5.** No person is eligible to be appointed or
to hold office as a member of the Corporation
who has, directly or indirectly and individu
ally or as a shareholder, partner or otherwise,
any pecuniary interest in commercial film
activity. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 5.

**5.** Each member of the Corporation, other
than the Government Film Commissioner or
other member of the public service of Canada,
may be paid such remuneration for each day
he attends any meeting of the Corporation as
may be fixed by by-law of the Corporation,
and each member of the Corporation is
entitled to be paid reasonable travelling and

**7.** A majority of the members of the
Corporation constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of the business of the Corporation.
1966-67, c. 78, s. 7.

**8.** A vacancy in the membership of the
Corporation does not impair the right of the
remainder to act. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 8.

**9.** The Corporation may designate one of
its members to be vice-chairman of the
Corporation who shall, in the event of the
absence or incapacity of the chairman or if
the office of chairman is vacant, act as
chairman. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 9.

## OBJECTS AND POWERS

**10.** (1) The objects of the Corporation are
to foster and promote the development of a
feature film industry in Canada, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Corporation may, in furtherance of its objects,
  * (_a_) invest in individual Canadian feature
film productions in return for a share in the
proceeds from any such production ;
  * (_b_) make loans to producers of individual
Canadian feature film productions and
charge interest thereon ;
  * (_c_) make awards for outstanding accom
plishments in the production of Canadian
feature films ;
  * (_d_) make grants to film-makers and film
technicians resident in Canada to assist
them in improving their craft ; and
  * (_e_) advise and assist the producers of
Canadian feature films in the distribution
of such films and in the administrative
functions of feature film production.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, a
"Canadian feature film" or "Canadian feature
film production" is a feature film or feature
film production in respect of which the
Corporation has determined
  * (_a_) that the completed film will, in the
judgment of the Corporation, have a
significant Canadian creative, artistic and
technical content, and that arrangements
have been made to ensure that the copyright
in the completed film will be beneficially
owned by an individual resident in Canada,
by a corporation incorporated under the
laws of Canada or a province or by any
combination of such persons ; or
  * (_b_) that provision has been made for the
production of the film under a co-production
agreement entered into between Canada
and another country.
(3) The Corporation shall not be regarded
as a partner in any film production in which
it may invest and its liability shall be limited
to the amount of its investment in the
production.
(4) The Corporation shall, to the greatest
possible extent consistent with the perform
ance of its duties under this Act, consult and
cooperate with departments, branches and
agencies of the Government of Canada and
of the governments of the provinces having
duties, or having aims or objects, related to
those of the Corporation. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 10.

## ORGANIZATION
1 X. The members of the Corporation shall
meet at such times and places as they deem
necessary but shall meet at least six times a
year. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Governor in Council may on
the recommendation of the Corporation
appoint an executive director of the Corpora
tion and a secretary of the Corporation who
shall hold office during pleasure and shall be
paid such salaries as are fixed by the Governor
in Council.
(2) The executive director is the chief
executive officer of the Corporation and has
supervision over and direction of the work
and staff of the Corporation, and the executive
director may attend the meetings of the
Corporation. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 12.

**13.** The Corporation may, subject to the
approval of the Minister, make by-laws for
the regulation of its proceedings and generally
for the conduct and management of its
activities. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 13.

**14.** The Minister may, on the recommen
of the Corporation, appoint an
Advisory Group broadly representative of the
associations, exhibitors, distribu
and unions in the Canadian film industry
including other qualified persons, to
the Corporation on matters which the
Minister or the Corporation may refer to it.
1966-67, c. 78, s. 14.

**15.** The Corporation may employ such
officers and employees and such technical
and professional advisers as it considers
necessary for the proper conduct of its
activities at such remuneration and upon such
other terms and conditions as it deems fit.
1966-67, c. 78, s. 15.

**16.** The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not apply to the members of the
Corporation as such. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 16.

**17.** (1) The Corporation is, for all purposes
of this Act, an agent of Her Majesty, and its
powers under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(3) Property acquired by the Corporation
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Corporation
were not an agent of Her Majesty. 1966-67, c.
78, s. 17.

## FINANCIAL

**18.** (1) There is hereby appropriated for
the purposes of this Act the sum of ten million
dollars to be paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund from time to time as required
pursuant to this Act.
(2) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the Canadian Film Develop
ment Advance Account.
(3) All amounts required for the purposes
of paragraphs 10(1K) and (6) shall be paid
Development Advance Account.
(4) All amounts received by the Corporation
as or on account of fie proceeds from any
production in which the Corporation has
invested under paragraph 10(l)(a) or as or on
account of the principal amount of or interest
on any loan made by it under paragraph
10(1)(6), shall be paid by the Corporation to
the Receiver General to be deposited in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund and credited to
the Canadian Film Development Advance
Account.
(5) All amounts required
  * (_a_) for the purposes of paragraphs 10(l)(c),
  * (_d_) and (e), and
  * (_b_) for the payment of salaries and other
expenses, including expenses of administra
tion, under this Act,
shall be paid out of the amount appropriated
by subsection (1) and shall be charged to
budgetary expenditures. 1966-67, c. 78, s. 18.

## AUDIT

**19.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Corporation shall be audited annually
by the Auditor General of Canada, and a
report of the audit shall be made to the
Corporation and to the Minister. 1966-67, c.
78, s. 19.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**20.** The chairman of the Corporation shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, transmit to the Minister a
statement in such form as the Minister may
prescribe relating to the activities of the
Corporation for that fiscal year, including the
financial statements of the Corporation and
the Auditor General s report thereon, and the
Minister shall cause such statement to be laid
before Parliament within fifteen days after
the receipt thereof or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first fifteen days
next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
1966-67, c. 78, s. 20.
