dairy products and to regulate interpro-
vincial and international trade in dairy
products

## SHORT TITLE
l. This Act may be cited as the Canada
Dairy Products Act. R.S., c. 22, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"analyst" means an analyst designated for
the purposes of the Food and Drugs Act or
an analyst employed under the Government
of Canada or the government of a province
and having authority to make analyses for
public purposes;
"dairy product" means milk, cream, butter,
cheese, condensed milk, evaporated milk,
milk powder, dry milk, ice-cream, malted
milk, sherbet, or any other product manu
factured wholly or mainly from milk ;
"grader" means a person designated as a
grader pursuant to section 6 ;
"inspector" means a person designated as an
inspector pursuant to section 6 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"package" means a receptacle or covering
used for the packing, wrapping or covering
of a dairy product ;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation
under this Act. R.S., c. 22, s. 2; 1968-69, c.
28, s. 105.

## PARTI

## STANDARDS

**3.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
establishing grades with appropri
ate grade names for any class of dairy
products and, without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, may, by such regulations
  * (_a_) prescribe the terms and conditions on
which and the manner in which dairy
products may be graded under this Part ;
(6) without limiting the generality of para
graph (a), require, as a condition to the
grading of a dairy product under this Part,
that it has been produced in an establish
ment that, at the time of production,
  * (_i_) complied with prescribed conditions,
and
  * (_ii_) was registered in a prescribed manner ;
  * (_c_) prescribe fees that may be charged for
grading by graders ; and
  * (_d_) prescribe the sizes, dimensions and other
specifications of packages in which a dairy
product must be packed and the manner in
which it must be packed as a condition to
application or use of the name of a grade
so established.
(2) No person shall
  * (_a_) sell, offer for sale, or have in possession
for sale a dairy product under the name of
a grade established under subsection (1) or
under a grade name or other designation so
closely resembling the name of a grade so
established as to be likely to be mistaken
therefor, or
(6) apply to a dairy product or to a package
containing a dairy product the name of a
grade established under subsection (1) or a
grade name or other designation so closely
resembling the name of a grade so estab
lished as to be likely to be mistaken therefor,
unless
  * (_c_) the dairy product conforms to the
standards prescribed for the grade,
as required by the regulations. R.S., c. 22,
s. 3.

## PART II

## INTERNATIONAL AND INTER-

## PROVINCIAL TRADE

**4.** No person shall, without the consent in
writing of the Minister,
  * (_a_) export from Canada, or
(6) send or convey from one province to
another,
a dairy product of a class for which grades
have been established under Part I unless the
dairy product has been graded under that
Part and is packed and marked in accordance
with the regulations made under that Part.
R.S., c. 22, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
regulation prohibit
( a ) importation into Canada,
(6) exportation out of Canada, or
  * (_c_) sending or conveyance from one province
to another,
of a dairy product of any class unless it
complies with prescribed standards, has been
produced in accordance with prescribed con
ditions and is packed and marked in prescribed
manner.
(2) No person shall
  * (_a_) import into Canada,
(6) export from Canada, or
  * (_c_) send or convey from one province to
another,
a dairy product contrary to a regulation made
under this section. R.S., c. 22, s. 5.

## PART III

## ADMINISTRATION AND

## ENFORCEMENT

**6.** (1) The Minister may designate any
as an analyst or a grader and the
or the Minister of Consumer and
Affairs may designate any person
as an inspector for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The Minister may make regulations, not
inconsistent with this Act or regulations made
under section 3 or 5, to carry out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. R.S., c. 22, s. 7;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**7.** (1) An inspector may at any time enter
a place where he reasonably believes that
there are dairy products or other things to
which this Act applies and examine any dairy
product or other thing found and take samples
thereof.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
prescribed certificate of his appointment and,
on entering any place pursuant to subsection
(1), shall, if so required, produce the certificate
to the person in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of a place
entered by an inspector pursuant to subsection
(1) and every person found therein shall give
the inspector all reasonable assistance in his
power and furnish him with such information
as he may reasonably require.
(4) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that this Act has been
violated, he may seize the dairy products and
other things by means of or in relation to
which he reasonably believes the violation
was committed.
(5) Dairy products and other things seized
pursuant to subsection (4) shall not be detained
after
  * (_a_) this Act and the regulations have, in
the opinion of the inspector, been complied
with, or
(6) the expiration of ninety days from the
day of seizure,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation in which
event the dairy products and other things
may be detained until the proceedings are
finally concluded.
  * (_g_) Where a person has been convicted of a
violation of this Act, every dairy product or
other thing by means of or in relation to
which the offence was committed is, upon the
in addition to any penalty
imposed, forfeited to Her Majesty, whether
not the forfeiture is directed by the
and may be disposed of as the
Minister may direct. R.S., c. 22, s. 8.

**8.** (1) No person shall obstruct an inspector
or other officer in the carrying out of his
duties under this Act.
(2) No person shall make any false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to any inspector or other officer
engaged in carrying out his duties under this
Act. R.S., c. 22, s. 9.

**9.** (1) Every person who, or whose employee
or agent, has violated any provision of this
Act is guilty of an offence and liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both; or
(6) upon conviction under indictment to a
fine not exceeding two thousand dollars or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year, or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence to
establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not he is identified or has been prosecuted for
the offence. R.S., c. 22, s. 10.

**10.** (1) Proof that a package containing a
dairy product bore a name and address
purporting to be the name and address of the
person by whom it was packed or a registered
number purporting to be the registered number
of the establishment where it was packed is
prima facie proof, in a prosecution for a
violation of this Act, that the dairy product
was packed and that the package was marked
by the person whose name or address appeared
on the package or by the person operating
the establishment whose registered number
appeared on the package, as the case may be.
(2) A certificate of an analyst stating that
has examined the composition of a sample
a dairy product or other thing submitted
to him by an inspector and stating the result
of his examination is evidence, in a prosecution
for a violation of this Act, of the statements
contained in the certificate.
(3) A certificate of a grader as to the grade
of a dairy product is evidence, in a prosecution
for a violation of this Act, of the grade of the
product at the time when, according to the
certificate, the product was graded and during
the period for which the certificate is expressed
to be valid.
(4) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, a document purporting to be the
certificate of an analyst or a grader shall be
received in evidence without proof of the
signature of the person by whom it purports
to be signed and without proof of his official
position. R.S., c. 22, s. 11.
1 1. A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a police or stipendiary
magistrate or a justice or justices of the peace
if the accused is resident or carrying on
business within his or their territorial juris
diction although the matter of the complaint
or information did not arise in his or their
territorial jurisdiction. R.S., c. 22, s. 12.
