
# CHAPTER D-7
Act to disfranchise voters who have taken
bribes

## SHORT TITLE
l. This Act may be cited as the Disfran
chising Act. R.S., c. 83, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"clerk of the court" has the same meaning as
in the Dominion Controverted Elections Act ;
"voter" means any person whose name is
upon any voters list in force under the
Canada Elections Act, or any person entitled
to vote at an election of a member of the
House of Commons, or who has voted at
such an election. R.S., c. 83, s. 2.

## CONSTITUTION OF COURT

**3.** j n eac h province, the court that, under
the Dominion Controverted Elections Act, has
power, jurisdiction and authority, with refer
ence to election petitions therein, shall be
held to be and is hereby constituted a court
for the purposes of this Act. R.S., c. 83, s. 3.

**4.** The several officers of the court for the
trial of controverted elections shall be,
respectively, officers of the court constituted
this Act. R.S., c. 83, s. 4.
days and not more than sixty days after the
day on which an election is held under the
Canada Elections Act, a petition, in the form
or to the effect set out in and signed in
conformity with section 6, has been presented
to the court, stating that bribery has exten
sively prevailed at the election, the court, if
satisfied from the affidavits produced that
such bribery has been so practised at such
election, shall, within thirty days, assign one
of its judges for the purpose of making an
inquiry under this Act. R.S., c. 83, s. 5.

**6.** (i) g ucn petition may be in Form A in
the schedule and shall be signed by five voters
or more of the electoral district where the
election has been held.
(2) Each voter signing the petition shall
add to his name his postal address.
(3) All the petitioners shall make an
affidavit in Form B in the schedule, stating
that they are such voters and that the
allegations in the petition are true to the best
of their knowledge and belief.
(4) Such affidavit shall be annexed to the
petition. R.S., c. 83, s. 6.

**7.** No petition under this Act shall be
received unless the sum of one thousand
dollars is deposited therewith, to be applied
under the direction of the court in defraying
the expenses of the inquiry. R.S., c. 83, s. 7.

**8.** The presentation of a petition shall be
deemed to be complete upon its being left,
together with the deposit aforesaid, with the
clerk of the court. R.S., c. 83, s. 8.

**9.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
wh ere in any electoral district an election
petition has been filed under the Dominion
Controverted Elections Act, no petition shall
be filed under this Act until such election
petition has been abandoned or disposed of.
R.S.,c. 83, s. 9.

**10.** The judges of the court shall, if the
is not prescribed by law or the practice
of the court, arrange the rotation or order in
any duties assigned by this Act to a
judge shall be performed by the judges
the court respectively. R.S., c. 83, s. 10.
1 1. (1) The judges of every court constitut
ed for the purposes of this Act, or a majority
of them, may make, revoke and alter general
rules and orders, for the effectual execution
of this Act and of the intention and object
thereof.
(2) Any general rules and orders so made
and not inconsistent with this Act shall be
deemed to be within the powers conferred by
this Act and are of the same force as if they
were herein enacted.
(3) Such rules shall include regulations
respecting the appearance of solicitors and
counsel and the several parties who may take
part in the inquiry and be represented thereat.
R.S.,c. 83, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The judge shall, upon his appoint
ment, or within a reasonable time thereafter,
from time to time hold meetings for the
purposes of the inquiry, at some convenient
place within the electoral district, and may
adjourn such meetings from time to time and
from place to place within the electoral
district.
(2) The clerk of the court shall give notice
of the time and place of holding the first
meeting by mailing such notice to each of the
electors who have signed the petition, at least
fourteen days before the first meeting is held.
R.S.,c. 83, s. 12.

**13.** It is the duty of the judge to endeavour,
by all lawful means, to ascertain the persons
who have taken bribes at the last election.
R.S., c. 83, s. 13.

**14.** Every voter shall be held to have taken
a bribe within the meaning of this Act who,
before or during any election, directly or
indirectly, himself or by any other person on
his behalf, receives, or agrees, or contracts for,
any money, gift, loan or valuable considera
tion, for voting or agreeing to vote, or for
consideration for having voted or
refrained from voting. R.S., c. 83, s. 14.

**15.** All persons duly summoned shall
attend and answer all questions put to them
concerning the matters to be inquired into,
and shall produce all books, papers, deeds
and writings required of them and in their
custody or under their control. R.S., c. 83, s.

**15.**

**16.** The evidence shall be taken under
oath. R.S., c. 83, s. 16.

**17.** The judge sitting in such inquiry is a
court of record. R.S., c. 83, s. 17.

**18.** The presentation of the petition is
prima facie evidence of the allegations therein,
except as to the allegation that bribery
prevailed at the election. R.S., c. 83, s. 18.

**19.** (1) All witnesses are entitled to be
paid, in the first instance, by the party by
whom they are summoned, fees or conduct
money as in an ordinary action in the court.
(2) The judge shall allow the fees of all
material witnesses out of the money in court,
if the fees have not already been paid to such
witnesses. R.S., c. 83, s. 19.

## FINDING AND REPORT

**20.** The finding or decision in respect to
any voter shall be made by the judge in open
court, at the close of the evidence or at such
future time and place as he then fixes for
that purpose ; but he shall not decide that
any voter has taken a bribe unless and until
he is satisfied that such voter has been served
with a notice of the charge against him, and
has had an opportunity of meeting it, or that
it was impossible to give him such notice by
reason of his intentionally evading service.
R.S., c. 83, s. 20.

**21.** The judge shall, within ten days after
the time within which an appeal may be
taken under this Act, report to the Secretary
State of Canada the name of every voter
he finds to have taken a bribe and who
has not duly appealed from his finding. R.S.,
83, s. 21.

**22.** The Secretary of State of Canada shall
publish the report in the Canada Gazette.
R.S., c. 83, s. 22.

**23.** A copy of such report, certified by the
Secretary of State of Canada, shall be received
by the custodian of the provincial list as
evidence of the facts therein stated. R.S., c.
83, s. 23.

**24.** Any report made under this Act shall
be laid before Parliament within fourteen
days after it is received by the Secretary of
State of Canada, or, if Parliament is not then
sitting, within fourteen days after the then
next meeting of Parliament. R.S., c. 83, s. 24.

**25.** No voters whom the judge reports to
have taken bribes shall be capable of voting
at any election of a member of the House of
Commons held during the seven years next
after the report has been received by the
Secretary of State of Canada. R.S., c. 83,
s. 25.

## APPEALS

**26.** (1) From any finding or decision of
the court or judge disfranchising any voter,
such voter may, within thirty days after such
finding or decision, appeal, in any province,
to the final provincial court of appeal, or to
the division of the supreme court of the
province having final appellate jurisdiction
therein.
(2) Such appeals shall be carried on under
the rules of court made pursuant to this Act.
R.S., c. 83, s. 26.

**27.** (1) After the final disposal of any
appeal, the clerk of the court of appeal shall
forthwith report to the Secretary of State of
Canada the name of every voter who under
the decision upon the said appeal is held to
have been guilty of taking a bribe.
case of the report of a judge. R.S., c. 83, s. 27.

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
Petition
Electoral District of
The petition of A, B, C, D and E, of the said Electoral
District of showeth :

**1.** That they are duly qualified voters in the said electoral
district;

**2.** That an election in the said electoral district took place,
and that the polling was hold on the day of
19 , for the election of a member of the House of Commons
of Canada ;

**3.** That in the said election ... ... were candidates;

**4.** That bribery extensively prevailed at the said election ;

**5.** That the post office address of each of your petitioners is
opposite his signature.
A P.O. address ....

## B

## C

## D

## E

## FORM B
Affidavit
Electoral District of
I, ... , make oath and say that I am one of the
petitioners named in the foregoing petition and that the facts
set forth therein are true to the best of my knowledge and
belief.
Sworn before me at ^
in the county of this &amp;gt;
day of 19 J
R.S.. c. 83, Sch.
