CHAPTER E-l
Act to provide for the establishment of an
Economic Council of Canada

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Economic
Council of Canada Act. 1963, c. 11, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Council" means the Economic Council of
Canada established by section 3 ;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as may be
designated by the Governor in Council to
act as the Minister for the purposes of this
Act. 1963, c. ll,s.2.

## COUNCIL ESTABLISHED

**3.** There is hereby established a corporation
to be known as the Economic Council of
Canada, consisting of a chairman, two
directors and not more than twenty-five other
members, to be appointed by the Governor in
Council as provided in section 4. 1963, c. 11,
s.3.

**4.** (1) The chairman of the Council and
each of the directors shall be appointed to
hold office for a term not exceeding seven
years.
(2) Each of the other members of the
Council shall be appointed after consultation
with appropriate representative organizations
to hold office for a term of three years, except
that of those first appointed not less than
one-third shall be appointed for a term of two
and not less than one-third shall be
appointed for a term of four years.
(3) A retiring chairman, director or other
member of the Council is eligible for re-
appointment to the Council in the same or
another capacity. 1963, c. 11, s. 4.

## CHAIRMAN, DIRECTORS AND MEMBERS

**5.** (1) The chairman of the Council and
each of the directors shall be paid such salaries
and expenses as are fixed by the Governor in
Council and shall devote the whole of their
time to the performance of their duties under
this Act.
(2) The other members of the Council shall
serve without remuneration but are entitled
to be paid reasonable travelling and living
expenses while absent from their ordinary
place of residence in the course of their duties
under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a mem
ber of the Council other than the chairman
or a director may, for any period during
which he performs, with the approval of the
Council, any duties on behalf of the Council
in addition to his ordinary duties as a member
thereof, be paid such remuneration therefor
as may be authorized by the Governor in
Council. 1963, c. 11, s. 5.

**6.** A majority of members constitutes a
quorum of the Council. 1963, c. 11, s. 6.

**7.** A vacancy in the membership of the
Council does not impair the right of the
remainder to act. 1963, c. 11, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Council may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, designate one of
the directors to be vice-chairman of the
Council.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the chairman or if the office of chairman
is vacant, the vice-chairman has and may
exercise and perform all the duties and
functions of the chairman. 1963, c. 11, s. 8.
DUTIES

**9.** It shall be the duty of the Council to
and recommend to the Minister how
Canada can achieve the highest possible levels
of employment and efficient production in
order that the country may enjoy a high and
consistent rate of economic growth and that
all Canadians may share in rising living
standards; and in particular it shall be the
duty of the Council
  * (_a_) regularly to assess, on a systematic and
comprehensive basis, the medium term and
long term prospects of the economy, and to
compare such prospects with the potentiali
ties of growth of the economy ;
  * (_fr_) to recommend what government policies,
in the opinion of the Council, will best help
to realize the potentialities of growth of the
economy ;
  * (_c_) to consider means of strengthening and
improving Canada s international financial
and trade position ;
  * (_d_) to study means of increasing Canadian
participation in the ownership, control and
management of industries in Canada ;
  * (_e_) to study how economic growth, techno
logical change and automation, and inter
national economic changes may affect
employment and income in Canada as a
whole, in particular areas of Canada and in
particular sectors of the economy ;
(/) to study and discuss with representatives
of the industries concerned and with
representatives of labour, farmers and other
primary producers, and other occupational
groups and organizations, what specific
plans for production and investment in
major industries in Canada will best
contribute to a high and consistent rate of
economic growth ;
  * (_gf_) to study how national economic policies
can best foster the balanced economic
development of all areas of Canada ;
  * (_h_) to explore and evaluate particular
projects of major significance for the
expansion of industrial and other economic
activities in Canada, whether or not such
projects may involve direct governmental
participation, and to make recommenda
tions concerning those projects that in the
opinion of the Council will contribute to
the growth of the Canadian economy ;
  * (_i_) to encourage maximum consultation and
cooperation between labour and manage
ment in the fulfilment of the objectives of
this Act ;
0) to seek full and regular consultation
with appropriate agencies of the govern
ments of the several provinces ; and
  * (_fc_) to conduct, if directed to do so by the
Minister, reviews of medium term or long
term programs of the Government of
Canada that are designed to aid or assist
industry, labour or agriculture. 1963, c. 11,
s. 9.

**10.** The Council shall on its own initiative,
or if directed to do so by the Minister, conduct
such studies, inquiries and other undertakings
as may be necessary with respect to any
matter coming within paragraphs 9(a) to (/c)
or with respect to any other matter or thing
for or relating to the carrying out of its duties
under that section, and shall report to, advise
or make recommendations to the Minister
with respect thereto, as the circumstances
require. 1963, c. ll,s. 10.

## ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF COUNCIL

**11.** (1) In addition to its other duties under
this Act the Council shall, for the purpose of
promoting and expediting advances in effi
ciency of production in all sectors of the
economy,
  * (_a_) foster and promote
  * (_i_) the development of improved produc
tion and distribution methods,
  * (_ii_) the development of improved man
agement techniques,
  * (_iii_) the maintenance of good human
relations in industry,
  * (_iv_) the use of training programs at all
levels of industry, and the use of
retraining programs to meet changing
manpower requirements,
  * (_v_) the extension of industrial research
programs in plants and industries as a
means of achieving greater efficiency of
production, and
  * (_vi_) the dissemination of technical infor
mation; and
(6) organize, assist and enlist the aid of
committees, teams and other groups in the
implementation of programs designed to
give effect to any of the objectives set forth
in paragraph (a).
(2) Any specific programs initiated by the
Council in relation to any of the objectives
set forth in paragraph (l)(a) shall, if carried
out by the Council, be so carried out only
until such programs can effectively be con
tinued by other government departments or
agencies. 1963, c. 11, s. 11.

## ORGANIZATION

**12.** The head office of the Council shall
be in the city of Ottawa, but the Council may
meet at such other places at such times as it
deems necessary. 1963, c. 11, s. 12.

**13.** The chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Council and has supervision
over and direction of the work and staff of
the Council. 1963, c. 11, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Council may, subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
by-laws for the regulation of its proceedings
and generally for the conduct of its activities,
including the establishment of ad hoc, standing
and other committees of the Council.
(2) Any by-law made pursuant to subsection
(1) establishing an advisory committee of the
Council may provide for the membership
thereon of persons other than members of the
Council, in addition to members of the
Council. 1963, c. 11, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Council may
  * (_a_) appoint such officers and employees as
are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Council ; and
(6) prescribe the duties of such officers and
employees and, subject to the approval of
the Treasury Board, prescribe the conditions
of their employment.
(2) The officers and employees of the
Council appointed as provided in subsection
(1) shall be paid such salaries and expenses as
are fixed by the Council with the approval of
the Treasury Board. 1963, c. 11, s. 15.

**16.** The Council may engage on a tempo-
matter relating to the work of the Council, to
advise and assist the Council in the perform
ance of its duties under this Act, and with the
approval of the Treasury Board may fix and
pay the remuneration of such persons. 1963,
c. 11,8. 16.

**17.** (1) The Council is for all purposes of
this Act an agent of Her Majesty and its
powers under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Council may on behalf of Her
Majesty enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in its own name.
(3) Any property acquired by the Council
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Council.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Council on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Council in the name of the
Council in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the Council were not an agent
of Her Majesty. 1963, c. 11, s. 17.

**18.** The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not apply to the members of the Council
other than the chairman and the directors,
unless in the case of any such member the
Governor in Council otherwise directs. 1963,
c. 11, s. 18.
FINANCIAL
J9. All amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses under this Act
including expenses of administration shall be
paid out of moneys appropriated by Parlia
ment for the purpose. 1963, c. 11, s. 19.

## AUDIT

**20.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Council shall be audited annually by
the Auditor General of Canada, and a report
the Minister. 1963, c. 11, s. 20.

## REPORTS AND PUBLICATIONS

**21.** (1) The chairman of the Council shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, transmit to the Minister a
statement relating to the activities of the
Council for that fiscal year, including the
financial statements of the Council and the
Auditor General s report thereon, and the
Minister shall cause such statement to be laid
before Parliament within fifteen days after
the receipt thereof or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first fifteen days
next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
(2) The Council shall, annually, prepare
and cause to be published a review of medium
and long term economic prospects and
problems.
(3) The Council may cause to be published
such studies and reports prepared for the use
of the Council as it sees fit. 1963, c. 11, s. 21.
