Court Act. R.S., c. 98, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Court" or "Exchequer Court" means the
Exchequer Court of Canada ;
"Crown" means the Crown in the right or
interest of Canada ;
"letters patent" or "patent", when used with
respect to public lands, includes any
instrument by which such lands or any
interest therein may be granted or con
veyed ;
"original claimant" means the person from
whom title must be traced in order to
establish a right or claim to letters patent
for the lands in question ;
"public lands" means lands belonging to Her
Majesty in right of Canada and includes
lands of which the Government of Canada
has power to dispose ;
"Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court
of Canada ;
"witness" means a person, whether a party or
not, to be examined under this Act. R.S., c.
98, s. 2.

## CONSTITUTION OF COURT

**3.** The Court now existing under the name
the Exchequer Court of Canada is hereby
under such name, and continues to
be a court of record. R.S., c. 98, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Court shall consist of the
President and six puisne judges, who shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council by
letters patent under the Great Seal.
(2) Where in any Act of the Parliament of
Canada reference is made to the judge or a
judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada for
the purpose of conferring any power, authori
ty, or jurisdiction upon such judge, it shall be
taken to confer the said power, authority, or
jurisdiction severally and respectively upon
the President and the puisne judges of the
Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 4; 1960-61, c. 38, s. 5;
1964-65, c. 14, s. 2.

**5.** (1) A division of the Exchequer Court
called the Divorce Division is hereby estab
lished.
(2) The Divorce Division shall consist of
the following regular judges:
  * (_a_) the judge of the Court who was
designated under section 8 to exercise and
perform the powers, duties and functions of
the officer of the Senate referred to in
section 3 of the Dissolution and Annulment
of Marriages Act, chapter 10 of the Statutes
of Canada, 1963, and
(6) such other judges of the Court as may,
in the instruments authorizing their
appointment, be designated as judges of
the Divorce Division.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the
President of the Court is ex offido President
of the Divorce Division and each of the puisne
judges is ex offido a judge of the Divorce
Division, and as such have and may exercise
in all respects the same jurisdiction as regular
judges of the Divorce Division.
(4) The Registrar of the Court is ex offido
the Registrar of the Divorce Division. 1967-
68, c. 24, s. 23.

**6.** Subject to the rules of court and except
as otherwise provided by any order made by
the Governor in Council, any judge of the
Divorce Division may sit and act at any time
and at any place in Canada for the transaction
of the business of the Divorce Division or any
part thereof. 1967-68, c. 24, s. 23.
of Canada, or a barrister or advocate
at least ten years standing at the bar of
any of the provinces.
(2) A judge of the Court shall not hold any
other office of emolument, either under the
Government of Canada or under the govern
ment of any province of Canada.
(3) Judges of the Court shall reside at
Ottawa or within five miles thereof. R.S., c.
98, ss. 5, 6, 7.

**8.** A judge of the Court designated by the
Speaker of the Senate for the purpose of this
section after consultation with the President
of the Court, if he is granted leave of absence
for such purpose by the Governor in Council
from his duties as a judge of the Court, has
and may exercise and perform all of the
powers, duties and functions of the officer of
the Senate referred to in section 3 of the
Dissolution and Annulment of Marriages Act,
chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 1963.
1964-65, c. 14, s. 3.

**9.** (1) Subject to subsection (3), any judge
of a superior court or county court in Canada,
and any person who has held office as a judge
of a superior court or county court in Canada,
may, at the request of the President made
with the approval of the Governor in Council,
sit and act as a judge of the Exchequer Court
and as a judge of the Divorce Division.
(2) No request may be made under subsec
tion (1) to a judge of a provincial court
without the consent of the attorney general
of that province.
(3) The Governor in Council may approve
the making of requests pursuant to subsection
(1) either specifically or in general terms, and
for particular periods or purposes, and in
approving in general terms any such request
may limit the number of persons who may sit
and act pursuant to any request.
(4) A person who sits and acts as a judge
pursuant to subsection (1) shall be paid a
salary for the period he so sits and acts at the
rate fixed by the Judges Act for puisne judges
of the Exchequer Court less any amount
payable to him under that Act in
of that period. 1967-68, c. 24, s. 23.
N). Every judge of the Court holds office
during good behaviour, but is removable by
the Governor General on address of the
Senate and House of Commons, and each
judge ceases to hold office upon attaining the
age of seventy-five years. R.S., c. 98, s. 9.

## OATH OF OFFICE

**11.** (1) Every judge of the Court shall,
before entering upon the duties of his office,
take an oath in the following form :
I, , do solemnly and
sincerely promise and swear that I will duly and faithfully,
and to the best of my skill and knowledge, execute the
powers and trusts reposed in me as Judge of the Exchequer
Court of Canada. So help me God.
(2) The oath referred to in subsection (1)
shall be administered before the Governor
General or the person administering the
Government of Canada, or such person or
persons as he appoints. R.S., c. 98, ss. 10, 11.

## REGISTRAR AND OFFICERS

**12.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
an instrument under the Great Seal appoint
a fit and proper person, being a barrister of
at least five years standing, to be the Registrar
of the Court, to hold office during pleasure;
the Registrar shall keep an office at the city
of Ottawa, and shall be paid a salary to be
fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) There may from time to time be
appointed such other officers, clerks, stenog
raphers and employees as may be required,
all of whom hold office during pleasure. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 12; 1957, c. 24, s. 1.

**13.** The Public Service Employment Act and
the Public Service Superannuation Act, so far
as applicable, extend and apply to the
Registrar, clerks, stenographers and employees
of the Court at the seat of Government. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 13.

## BARRISTERS AND ATTORNEYS

**14.** All persons who are barristers or
in any of the provinces, may
as barristers, advocates and counsel
the Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 14.

**15.** All persons who are attorneys or
solicitors of the superior courts in any of the
provinces, may practise as attorneys, solicitors
and proctors in the Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 15.

**16.** All persons who may practise as
barristers, advocates, attorneys, solicitors or
proctors in the Court, are officers of the
Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 16.
JURISDICTION

**17.** The Court has exclusive original juris
diction in all cases in which the land, goods
or money of the subject are in the possession
of the Crown, or in which the claim arises out
of a contract entered into by or on behalf of
the Crown. R.S., c. 98, s. 17.

**18.** (1) The Court also has exclusive origi
nal jurisdiction to hear and determine the
following matters :
  * (_a_) every claim against the Crown for
property taken for any public purpose ;
  * (_b_) every claim against the Crown for
damage to property injuriously affected by
the construction of any public work ;
  * (_c_) every claim against the Crown arising
under any law of Canada or any regulation
made by the Governor in Council ;
  * (_d_) every set-off, counterclaim, claim for
damages whether liquidated or unliquidat
ed, or other demand whatever, on the part
of the Crown against any person making
claim against the Crown ;
  * (_e_) every claim against the Crown arising
out of any death or injury or loss to the
person or to property caused by the
negligence of any officer or servant of the
Crown while acting within the scope of his
duties or employment upon, in or about the
construction, maintenance or operation of
the Intercolonial Railway or the Prince
Edward Island Railway ;
t/) the amount to be paid where the Crown
and any person have agreed in writing that
the Crown or such person shall pay an
amount of money to be determined by the
Exchequer Court, or any question of law or
fact with respect to which the Crown and
any person have agreed in writing that any
such question of law or fact shall be
determined by the Exchequer Court ;
  * (_g_) the determining of the value of any real
or personal, movable or immovable, prop
erty, or of any interest therein, sold, leased
or otherwise disposed of by the Crown, or
which the Crown proposes to sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of, where such matter has
been referred to the Court by the head of
the department charged with the adminis
tration of such property ;
  * (_h_) every application for a writ of habeas
corpus ad subjiciendum or a writ of certiorari
or a writ of prohibition, or a writ of
mandamus, in relation to any officer or man
of the Canadian Forces, serving outside
Canada, or in relation to any proceedings,
or to any act or omission respecting any
such officer or man, to the same extent as
and under similar circumstances in which
jurisdiction now exists in the Exchequer
Court or in the courts or judges of the
several provinces in respect of similar
matters within Canada.
(2) Any writ mentioned in paragraph
shall be directed to the Minister of National
Defence, and, upon receipt of such writ, it is
the duty of the Minister of National Defence
to transmit the writ or a notification of the
issue and terms thereof, by the most rapid
means of communication available, to the
appropriate authority, having regard to the
matters to which the writ relates; and, upon
receipt of the writ or the notification, it is the
duty of the appropriate authority to take
such steps as may be necessary to comply
with the terms thereof. R.S., c. 98, s. 18; 1952-
53, c. 30, s. 25; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**19.** (1) The Court has exclusive original
jurisdiction at the suit or upon the application
of any person claiming to be entitled to public
or upon the application of the Attorney
of Canada, in any case in which
lands are claimed by any such person,
ascertain, determine and declare the person
whom the patent for such lands ought to
issue.
(2) The Court shall decide all such cases as
in its judgment the justice and equity of the
case demand, and shall report its decision to
the Governor in Council ; and letters patent
may issue granting the lands in question in
accordance with such decision. U.S., c. 98,
s. 19.

**20.** (1) The letters patent issued pursuant
to section 19 have, in regard to any charge,
encumbrance, lien, matter or thing affecting
the lands so granted, the same effect and
operation as, and no other effect and operation
than, the letters patent in favour of the
original claimant would have had, except for
establishing the claim of the party, in whose
favour the letters patent are issued, to the
lands to which the letters patent relate, as the
heir, devisee, representative or assignee of, or
as otherwise representing, the original claim
ant.
(2) Neither the decision of the Court nor
the issuing of the letters patent on such
decision extends to or in any way affects any
claim of the party in whose favour the
decision is given or the letters patent are
issued, or of any other party, to any lands
other than those to which the decision
expressly relates, and that are mentioned and
described in the report and letters patent ; but
such claims to other lands continue and
remain as if the decision and report had not
been made and the letters patent had not
been issued. R.S., c. 98, s. 20.

**21.** The Court has jurisdiction as well
between subject and subject as otherwise,
  * (_a_) in all cases of conflicting applications
for any patent of invention, or for the
registration of any copyright, trade mark
or industrial design ;
(6) in all cases in which it is sought to
impeach or annul any patent of invention,
or to have any entry in any register of
copyrights, trade marks or industrial designs
made, expunged, varied or rectified ; and
  * (_c_) in all other cases in which a remedy is
sought under the authority of any Act of
the Parliament of Canada or at common
law or in equity, respecting any patent of
invention, copyright, trade mark, or indus
trial design. R.S., c. 98, s. 21.

**22.** (1) Every applicant for a patent under
the Patent Act who has failed to obtain a
patent by reason of the objection of the
Commissioner of Patents as in that Act
provided may, at any time within six months
after notice thereof has been mailed, by
registered letter, addressed to him or his
agent, appeal to the Exchequer Court from
the decision of the Commissioner.
(2) The Court has exclusive jurisdiction to
hear and determine any such appeal. R.S., c.
98, s. 22.

**23.** (1) The Commissioner of Patents is
entitled to appear on behalf of the Crown
and as representing the interests of the public
and be heard by counsel on the hearing of an
appeal made under section 22.
(2) The Commissioner of Patents acting in
that capacity is entitled to appeal to the
Supreme Court of Canada from the judgment
of the Exchequer Court of Canada in any
such appeal by filing with the Registrar of
the Supreme Court of Canada, within thirty
days from the day upon which the judgment
was given, a notice stating that the Commis
sioner of Patents is dissatisfied with the
judgment, and this notice replaces a deposit
by way of security for costs.
(3) Further proceedings in the appeal are
governed by the existing practice relating to
appeals from judgments of the Exchequer
Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 23.

**24.** The Court has jurisdiction, upon
application of the Attorney General of
Canada, to entertain suits for relief by way
of interpleader in all cases where the Crown
or any officer or servant of the Crown as such
is under liability for any debt, money, goods
or chattels for or in respect of which the
General expects that the Crown or
officer or servant will be sued or proceeded
against by two or more persons making
adverse claims thereto, and where Her
Majesty s High Court of Justice in England
could, on the 30th day of September 1891,
grant such relief to any person applying
therefor in like circumstances. R.S., c. 98,
s. 24(1).

**25.** (1) The Court may, upon the applica
tion of the Attorney General of Canada, in
any case in which the Crown finds itself in
possession of any moneys belonging or
payable to some one other than the Crown,
and the Attorney General is in doubt as to
the person or persons to or among whom such
moneys should be paid or distributed, make
an order permitting the payment of such
moneys into Court.
(2) Upon payment of any such moneys into
Court in accordance with any such order, the
Crown is ipso facto released and discharged
from any and every liability whatever
regarding the moneys so paid into Court, and
any person claiming to be entitled to the
whole or any share of the moneys so paid in
is at liberty to institute an action in the Court
by way of petition for the recovery of the
same ; and in any such action the Court has
power to determine the rights of the claimant
or of any other person to the fund in question,
and may make such order or give such
directions, and may make such regulations as
will enable the Court to adjudicate upon the
rights of all persons interested in the fund,
and to order payment out to any person of
any such moneys or portion thereof in
accordance with the finding of the Court.
(3) In any such action the Court may give
directions with respect to the parties to whom
notice thereof shall be given, the time or
times within which such parties shall be
required to file their claims, and, generally,
the procedure to be followed to enable the
Court properly to adjudicate upon the rights
of the parties and to give judgment upon any
claim or claims against the fund in Court ;
and any claim that is not entered within the
time limited by order of the Court shall be
barred, and the Court may proceed to
the other claims and distribute the
moneys among the parties entitled thereto
without reference to any claim so barred ; and
in any case where the moneys in Court are
not sufficient to satisfy all claims the Court
may order that the moneys be distributed pro
rata among the parties entitled.
(4) The Court may also make such order
with respect to costs as it may deem fit. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 24(2)-(5).

**26.** (1) The Exchequer Court has jurisdic
tion with respect to any railway, or section of
a railway, not wholly within one province,
and with respect to any railway otherwise
subject to the legislative authority of the
Parliament of Canada, to order and decree,
in such manner as it may prescribe,
  * (_a_) the sale of such railway or section of
railway, and of all the rolling stock,
equipment and other accessories thereof,
  * (_i_) at the instance of the Minister of
Transport, or, with the approval of the
Canadian Transport Commission, at the
instance of any creditor of any person or
company owning or operating such rail
way or section, where such company has
become insolvent, or has for more than
thirty days failed to efficiently continue
the working or operating of the railway
or section or any part thereof, or has
become unable so to do,
  * (_ii_) at the instance of a creditor of such
person or company having a first lien or
charge upon the railway or section, or
  * (_iii_) at the instance of a holder of a first
mortgage of such railway or section, or
(6) the foreclosure, at the instance of a
mortgagee of such railway or section, of the
interest of the person or company owning
or entitled to the railway or section, with
the rolling stock, equipment and other
accessories thereof, or the equity of redemp
tion therein, whenever in like circumstances
of default the High Court of Justice in
England can so order or decree with respect
to mortgaged lands situated in England.
(2) Nothing in this section in any way
affects the provisions of the Railway Act with
respect to the power of a company to secure
its bonds, debentures or other securities by a
mortgage upon its property, assets, rents, and
revenues, or with respect to the powers,
privileges, preferences, priorities and restric
tions by the Railway Act authorized to be
granted or imposed upon the holders of those
bonds, debentures or other securities.
(3) The Court, in any of the cases mentioned
in this section, has all the powers for the
appointment of a receiver either before or
after default, the interim preservation of the
property, the delivery of possession, the
making of all necessary inquiries, the taking
of accounts, the settling and determining of
claims and priorities of creditors, the taxation
and payment of costs, and generally the
taking and directing of all such proceedings
requisite and necessary to enforce its order or
decree and render it effective, as in mortgage
actions the High Court of Justice in England,
or any division, judge or officer thereof, may
exercise.
(4) A receiver appointed pursuant to sub
section (3) shall take possession of such
railway, or of such section, and of all the
railway stock, equipment and other accessories
thereof, and shall, under the direction of the
Court, carry on the working and operating of
the railway or section or any part thereof,
and shall keep and maintain the road, rolling
stock, equipment and other accessories thereof
in good condition, and renew the same or any
part thereof, and, generally shall do all acts
necessary for the preservation, working,
maintenance, administration and operation
of the railway or section, and shall, in the
name of the company, institute or defend any
suits or actions on its behalf.
(5) The receiver may also, if the Court,
either upon his appointment or subsequently,
so directs, do all acts necessary for the
completion of the construction or equipment
of the railway or section.
(6) The remuneration of the receiver shall
be fixed by the Court, and the remuneration
fixed, together with the expenses lawfully
incurred by him as receiver, including the
expenses of working, operation, maintenance,
renewal and completion, and of the institution
and defence of actions, is a debt of the
company and the first charge upon the
railway or section, and upon the rolling stock,
equipment, accessories and earnings thereof.
R.S., c. 98, s. 26; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 94.

**27.** (1) A railway company is insolvent
within the meaning of section 26,
  * (_a_) if it is unable to pay its debts as they
become due,
(6) if it calls a meeting of its creditors for
the purpose of compounding with them,
  * (_c_) if it exhibits a statement showing its
inability to meet its liabilities,
  * (_d_) if it has otherwise acknowledged its
insolvency,
  * (_e_) if it assigns, removes or disposes of, or
attempts or is about to assign, remove or
dispose of, any of its property, with intent
to defraud, defeat or delay its creditors, or
any of them,
  * (_j_) if, with such intent, it has procured its
money, goods, chattels, lands or property
to be seized, levied on or taken under or by
any process or execution,
  * (_gi_) if it has made any general conveyance
or assignment of its property for the benefit
of its creditors, or if, being unable to meet
its liabilities in full, it makes any sale or
conveyance of the whole or the main part
of its stock in trade or assets, without the
consent of its creditors, or without satisfying
their claims; but the taking possession of
any railway or section thereof by trustees
for bondholders, by virtue of the powers
contained in any mortgage deed made to
secure the bondholders under the provisions
in that behalf of the Railway Act, shall not
be deemed a general conveyance or assign
ment, or a sale or conveyance, within the
meaning of this paragraph, or
  * (_h_) if it permits any execution issued against
it, under which any of its goods, chattels,
land or property, is seized, levied upon or
taken in execution, to remain unsatisfied
till within four days of the time fixed by
the sheriff or proper officer for the sale
thereof, or for fifteen days after such
seizure.
(2) A company is deemed unable to pay its
debts as they become due &amp;gt; whenever a creditor,
to whom the company is indebted in a sum
exceeding two hundred dollars then due, has
served on the company, in the manner in
which process may legally be served on it in
the place where service is made, a demand in
writing, requiring the company to pay the
sum so due, and the company has, for fifteen
days next succeeding the service of the
demand, neglected to pay such sum, or to
secure or compound for the same to the
satisfaction of the creditor. R.S., c. 98, s. 27.

**28.** Nothing in section 26 or 27 affects the
present jurisdiction of any court of a province
in any such matters as aforesaid affecting
railways, or sections thereof, wholly within
the province, and the superior courts of a
province now possessing such jurisdiction shall
continue with respect to such railways and
sections of railways to have concurrent
jurisdiction with the Exchequer Court in all
matters within the purview of this Act. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 28.

**29.** The Court has and possesses concurrent
original jurisdiction in Canada
  * (_a_) in all cases relating to the revenue in
which it is sought to enforce any law of
Canada, including actions, suits and pro
ceedings by way of information to enforce
penalties and proceedings by way of
information in rem, and as well in qui tarn
suits for penalties or forfeiture as where the
suit is on behalf of the Crown alone ;
(6) in all cases in which it is sought at the
instance of the Attorney General of Canada,
to impeach or annul any patent of invention,
or any patent, lease or other instrument
respecting lands ;
  * (_c_) in all cases in which demand is made or
relief sought against any officer of the
Crown for anything done or omitted to be
done in the performance of his duty as such
officer; and
  * (_d_) in all other actions and suits of a civil
nature at common law or equity in which
the Crown is plaintiff or petitioner. R.S., c.
98, s. 29.

**30.** (1) Where the legislature of any prov
ince of Canada has passed an Act agreeing
that the Exchequer Court has jurisdiction in
cases of controversies
  * (_a_) between Canada and such province,
(6) between such province and any other
province or provinces that have passed a
like Act,
the Court has jurisdiction to determine such
controversies.
(2) An appeal lies in such cases from the
Exchequer Court to the Supreme Court. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 30.
LIMITATIONS
3 1. Subject to any Act of the Parliament
of Canada, the laws relating to prescription
and the limitation of actions in force in any
province between subject and subject apply
to any proceeding against the Crown in
respect of a cause of action arising in such
province. R.S., c. 98, s. 31.

**32.** The Court shall not entertain any
claim in respect of which the claimant has a
suit or process against any person pending in
another court, if such person, at the time
when the cause of action alleged in such suit
or process arose, was, in respect thereof, acting
under the authority of the Crown. R.S., c. 98,
s. 32.

## SITTINGS OF THE COURT

**33.** (i) Subject to rules of court, any judge
of the Court may sit and act at any time and
at any place in Canada for the transaction of
the business of the Exchequer Court or any
part thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), not less
than three J ud g es of the Exchequer Court
shall sit and act on the hearing and
determination of any appeal to the Exchequer
Court under section 17 of the Divorce Act, but
in no case shall a judge who has heard a
petition for divorce sit and act on the hearing
and determination of any appeal under that
section from a judgment or order made in
respect of that petition. R.S., c. 98, s. 33; 1967-
68, c. 24, s. 23.

## PROCEDURE

**34.** All provisions of law and all rules and
orders regulating the practice and procedure
including evidence in the Exchequer Court,
now existing and in force, so far as they are
consistent with the provisions of this Act,
remain in force until altered or rescinded or
otherwise determined. R.S., c. 98, s. 34.

**35.** The practice and procedure in suits,
actions and matters in the Exchequer Court,
shall, so far as they are applicable, and unless
it is otherwise provided for by this Act, or by
general rules made in pursuance of this Act,
be regulated by the practice and procedure in
similar suits, actions and matters in Her
Majesty s High Court of Justice in England
on the 1st day of January 1928. R.S., c. 98,
s. 35.

**36.** (1) Any claim against the Crown may
be prosecuted by petition of right, or may be
referred to the Court by the head of the
department in connection with the adminis
tration of which the claim arises.
(2) If any such claim is so referred no fiat
shall be given on any petition of right in
respect thereof. R.S., c. 98, s. 36.

**37.** The head of any department in
connection with the administration of which
any claim arises may, instead of referring
such claim to the Court for adjudication
thereon, refer it to one of the official referees
for examination and report, both as to the
matters of fact involved and as to the amount
of damages, if any, sustained ; and such
official referee shall make such examination
upon the oath or affirmation of witnesses,
and shall report his findings upon the
questions of fact and upon the amount of
damages, if any, sustained and the principles
upon which the amount has been computed.
98,s.37.

**38.** Issues of fact and inquisitions in the
Exchequer Court shall be tried by a judge
a jury. R.S., c. 98, s. 38.

**39.** The trial of any issue of fact or
inquisition may, by order of the Court, take
place partly at one place and partly at
another, and the evidence of any witness
may, by like order, be taken by commission,
or on examination or affidavit. R.S., c. 98,
s. 39.

**40.** f he Court may, for the purpose of
taking accounts or making inquiries, or for
the determination of any question or issue of
fact, refer any cause, claim, matter or petition
to the Registrar or any other officer of the
Court, or to an official or special referee for
inquiry and report, and may also, if it thinks
it expedient so to do, call in the aid of one or
more specially qualified assessors, and try
and hear the cause, matter or petition, wholly
or partially, with the assistance of such
assessor or assessors. R.S., c. 98, s. 40.
4 1. By direction of the Court the testimony
of any witness may be taken down in
shorthand by a stenographer who shall be
previously sworn faithfully to take down and
transcribe the testimony ; and the Court may
make such order for the payment of the costs
thereby incurred as is just. R.S., c. 98, s. 41.

## COSTS OF CROWN

**42.** In any proceeding to which Her
Majesty is a party, either as represented by
the Attorney General of Canada or otherwise,
costs adjudged to Her Majesty shall not be
disallowed or reduced upon taxation merely
because the solicitor or the counsel who earned
such costs, or in respect of whose services the
costs are charged, was a salaried officer of the
Crown performing such services in the dis
charge of his duty and remunerated therefor
by his salary, or for that or any other reason
not entitled to recover any costs from the
Crown in respect of the services so rendered ;
and the costs recovered by or on behalf of
Her Majesty in any such case shall be paid
into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. R.S., c.
s. 42.

## SECURITY FOR COSTS

**43.** Where an order on any petition,
reference or proceeding against the Crown, on
application by or on behalf of the Attorney
General of Canada, is made for security for
costs, and the suppliant , claimant or petitioner
fails to give security to the satisfaction of the
judge for the payment of costs, in the event
of the judgment being against such suppliant,
claimant or petitioner, or of its not exceeding
the sum tendered by the Crown, all further
proceedings on such petition, reference or
proceeding shall be stayed until otherwise
ordered. R.S., c. 98, s. 43.

## TENDER

**44.** The Crown may, in the matter of any
petition, reference or proceeding, plead a
tender without paying the money tendered
into court. R.S., c. 98, s. 44.

**45.** Every tender of a sum of money on
behalf of the Crown shall be deemed to be
legally made if made by a written offer to
pay such sum, given under the hand of a
minister of the Crown, or some person acting
for him in that behalf, and notified to the
person having such claim. R.S., c. 98, s. 45.

## RULES FOR ADJUDICATING UPON CLAIMS

**45.** The Court, in determining the amount
to be paid to any claimant for any land or
property taken for the purpose of any public
work, or for injury done to any land or
property, shall estimate or assess the value or
amount thereof at the time when the land or
property was taken, or the injury complained
of was occasioned. U.S., c. 98, s. 46.

**47.** j n adjudicating upon any claim arising
out of any contract in writing the Court shall
decide in accordance with the stipulations in
such contract, and shall not allow
  * (_a_) compensation to any claimant on the
ground that he expended a larger sum of
money in the performance of his contract
stipulating for payment of such interest or
of a statute providing in such a case for the
payment of interest by the Crown. R.S., c.
98, s. 47.

**48.** No clause in any such contract in which
a drawback or penalty is stipulated for on
account of the non-performance of any
condition thereof, or on account of any
neglect to complete any public work or to
fulfil any covenant in the contract, shall be
considered as comminatory, but it shall be
construed as importing an assessment by
mutual consent of the damages caused by
such non-performance or neglect. R.S., c. 98,
s. 48.

**49.** The Court shall, in determining the
compensation to be made to any person for
land taken for or injuriously affected by the
construction of any public work, take into
account and consideration, by way of set-off,
any advantage or benefit, special or general,
accrued or likely to accrue, by the construction
and operation of the public work, to such
person in respect of any lands held by him
with the lands so taken or injuriously affected.
R.S., c. 98, s. 49.

**50.** For the purpose of determining liability
in any action or other proceeding by or
against Her Majesty, a person who was at any
time since the 24th day of June 1938 a member
of the Canadian Forces or the naval, army or
air forces of Her Majesty in right of Canada
shall be deemed to have been at such time a
servant of the Crown. 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

## EFFECT OF PAYMENT OR JUDGMENT

**51.** The payment of the amount due by
any judgment of the Court is a full discharge
to the Crown of all claim and demand
any of the matters involved in the
R.S., c. 98, s. 51.

**52.** A final judgment against the claimant
any claim prosecuted as provided in this
bars for ever any further claim or demand
the Crown arising out of the matters
involved in the controversy. R.S., c. 98, s. 52.

## INTEREST

**53.** The Minister of Finance may allow
and cause to be paid to any person entitled
by the judgment of the Court to any moneys
or costs, interest thereon at a rate not
exceeding four per cent from the date of such
judgment until such moneys or costs are paid.
R.S., c. 98, s. 53.

## EXECUTION

**54.** In addition to any writs of execution
that are prescribed by general rules or orders,
the Court may issue writs of execution against
the person or the goods, lands or other
property of any party, of the same tenor and
effect as those that may be issued out of any
of the superior courts of the province in which
any judgment or order is to be executed ; and
where, by the law of the province, an order of
a judge is required for the issue of any writ
of execution, a judge of the court may make
a similar order, with respect to like executions
to issue out of the court. R.S., c. 98, s. 54.

**55.** No person shall be taken into custody
under process of execution for debt issued out
of the Court at the suit of the Crown, unless
he might be taken into custody under the
laws of the province in which he happens to
be, in a similar case between subject and
subject ; and any person taken into custody
under such process may be discharged from
imprisonment upon the same grounds as
would entitle him to be discharged under the
laws in force relating to imprisonment for
debt in the province in which he is in custody.
R.S., c. 98, s. 55.

**56.** All writs of execution against real or
personal property, as well those prescribed by
general rules and orders as those authorized
in this Act, shall, unless otherwise provided
by general rule or order, be executed, as
regards the property liable to execution and
the mode of seizure and sale, as nearly as
possible in the same manner as similar writs,
issued out of the superior courts of the
province in which the property to be seized is
situated, are, by the law of the province,
required to be executed ; and such writs bind
property in the same manner as such similar
writs, and the rights of purchasers thereunder
are the same as those of purchasers under
such similar writs. R.S., c. 98, s. 56.

**57.** Every claim made by any person to
property seized under a writ of execution
issued out of the Court, or to the proceeds of
the sale of such property, shall, unless
otherwise provided by general rule or order,
be heard and disposed of, as nearly as may
be, according to the procedure applicable to
like claims to property seized under similar
writs of execution issued out of the courts of
the province. R.S., c. 98, s. 57.
SHERIFFS FEES

**58.** Sheriffs and coroners shall receive and
take to their own use such fees as the President
of the Court, by general order, shall fix and
determine. R.S., c. 98, s. 58.

## EVIDENCE

**59.** All persons authorized to administer
affidavits to be used in any of the superior
courts of any province may administer oaths,
affidavits and affirmations in such province
to be used in the Exchequer Court. R.S., c.
98, s. 59.

**60.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by
commission, empower such persons as he
thinks necessary, within or out of Canada, to
administer oaths, and to take and receive
affidavits, declarations and affirmations in or
concerning any proceeding had or to be had
in the Exchequer Court.
(2) Every oath, affidavit, declaration or
affirmation taken or made pursuant to
subsection (1) is as valid and of the like effect,
to all intents, as if it had been administered,
taken, sworn, made or affirmed before the
in which it is intended to be used, or
the judge or any competent officer of
Exchequer Court in Canada.
(3) Every commissioner so empowered shall
be styled a commissioner for administering
oaths in the Exchequer Court of Canada.
R.S., c. 98, s. 60.

**61.** Any oath, affidavit, affirmation or
declaration concerning any proceeding had or
to be had in the Exchequer Court adminis
tered, sworn, affirmed or made out of Canada
is as valid and of like effect to all intents as
if it had been administered, sworn, affirmed
or made before a commissioner appointed
under this Act, if it is so administered, sworn,
affirmed or made out of Canada before
  * (_a_) a commissioner authorized to take
affidavits to be used in Her Majesty s High
Court of Justice in England,
(6) a notary public and certified under his
hand and official seal,
  * (_c_) a mayor or chief magistrate of any city,
borough, or town corporate in any part of
the Commonwealth and Dependent Ter
ritories other than Canada or in any foreign
country and certified under the common
seal of such city, borough or town corporate,
  * (_d_) a judge of any court of superior
jurisdiction in any part of the Common
wealth and Dependent Territories other
than Canada, or
  * (_e_) a consul, vice-consul, acting consul, pro
consul or consular agent of Her Majesty
exercising his functions in any foreign place
and certified under his official seal. R.S., c.
98,8.61.

**62.** Every document purporting to have
affixed, imprinted or subscribed thereon or
thereto the signature of
  * (_a_) a commissioner appointed under this
Act,
  * (_b_) a person authorized to take affidavits
to be used in any of the superior courts of
any province,
  * (_c_) a commissioner authorized to receive
affidavits to be used in Her Majesty s High
Court of Justice in England,
  * (_d_) a notary public under his official seal,
  * (_e_) a mayor or chief magistrate of any city,
borough or town corporate in any part of
the Commonwealth and Dependent Ter
ritories other than Canada or in a foreign
country, under the common seal of the
corporation,
0) a judge of any court of superior
jurisdiction in any part of the Common
wealth and Dependent Territories other
than Canada under the seal of the court of
which he is such judge, or
  * (_g_) a consul, vice-consul, acting consul, pro
consul or consular agent of Her Majesty
exercising his functions in any foreign place
under his official seal,
in testimony of any oath, affidavit, affirma
tion or declaration having been administered,
sworn, affirmed or made by or before him,
shall be admitted in evidence without proof
of the signature or seal or official character
of such person. R.S., c. 98, s. 62.

**63.** No informality in the heading or other
formal requisites of any affidavit, declaration
or affirmation, made or taken before any
person under any provision of this or any
other Act, is an objection to its reception in
evidence in the Exchequer Court, if the Court
or judge thinks proper to receive it; and if
such affidavit is actually sworn to, declared
or affirmed by the person making it before
any person duly authorized thereto, and is
received in evidence, no such informality
shall be set up to defeat an indictment for
perjury. R.S., c. 98, s. 63.

**54.** (}) jf anv party to any proceeding had
Qf ^ be ^ in ^ Court ^ degirous of hav j ng
therein the evidence of any person, whether
a party or not, or whether resident within or
out of Canada, and, if in the opinion of the
Court or a judge thereof, it is, owing to the
absence, age or infirmity, or the distance of
to do, the Court or a judge may, upon the
of such party, order the examina
of any such person upon oath, by
interrogatories or otherwise, before the Regis
trar of the Court, or any commissioner for
taking affidavits in the Court, or any other
person or persons to be named in such order,
or may order the issue of a commission under
the seal of the Court for the examination.
(2) The Court or a judge may, by the same
or any subsequent order, give all such
directions touching the time, place and
manner of the examination, the attendance
of the witnesses and the production of papers
thereat, and all matters connected therewith,
as appears reasonable. R.S., c. 98, s. 64.

**65.** Every person authorized to take the
examination of any witness pursuant to this
Act, shall take such examination upon the
oath of the witness, or upon affirmation, as
provided in the Canada Evidence Act. R.S., c.
98, s. 65.

**66.** The Court, or a judge may, if it is
considered for the ends of justice expedient
so to do, order the further examination before
either the Court, or a judge thereof, or other
person, of any witness; and if the party on
whose behalf the evidence is tendered neglects
or refuses to obtain such further examination,
the Court or judge, in its or his discretion,
may decline to act on the evidence. R.S., c.
98, s. 66.

**67.** Such notice of the time and place of
the examination as is prescribed in the order
shall be given to the adverse party. R.S., c.
98, s. 67.

**68.** Where an order is made for the
examination of a witness, and a copy of the
order, together with a notice of the time and
place of attendance, signed by the person or
one of the persons to take the examination,
has been duly served on the witness within
Canada, and he has been tendered his legal
fees for attendance and travel, his refusal or
neglect to attend for examination, or to
answer any proper question put to him on
or to produce any paper that he
been notified to produce, shall be deemed
a contempt of court and may be punished by
the same process as other contempts of court ;
but he shall not be compelled to produce any
paper that he would not be compelled to
produce, or to answer any question that he
would not be bound to answer in court. R.S.,
c. 98, s. 68.

**69.** Where the parties in any case pending
consent in writing that a witness may be
examined within or out of Canada by
interrogatories or otherwise, the consent and
the proceedings had thereunder are as valid
in all respects as if an order had been made
and the proceedings had thereunder. R.S., c.
98, s. 69.

**70.** All examinations taken in Canada,
pursuant to this Act, shall be returned to the
Court, and the depositions, certified under
the hand of the person or one of the persons
taking the same, may, without further proof,
be used in evidence, saving all just exceptions.
R.S., c. 98, s. 70.
7 1. All examinations taken out of Canada,
pursuant to this Act, shall be proved by
affidavit of the due taking of the examina
tions, sworn before some commissioner or
other person authorized under this or any
other Act to take such affidavit, at the place
where such examination has been taken, and
shall be returned to the Court ; and the
depositions so returned, together with such
affidavit, and the order or commission, closed
under the hand and seal of the person or one
of the persons authorized to take the
examination, may, without further proof, be
used in evidence, saving all just exceptions.
R.S., c. 98, s. 71.

**72.** Where any examination has been
returned, any party may give notice of such

## GENERAL

**73.** The process of the Court shall be tested
in the name of the President of the Court
and runs throughout Canada. R.S., c. 98,
s. 73.

**74.** (1) The process of the Court shall be
directed to the sheriff of any county or other
judicial division into which any province is
divided ; and the sheriffs of the said respective
counties or divisions are ex officio officers of
the Exchequer Court, and shall perform the
duties and functions of sheriffs in connection
with the Court.
(2) In any case where the sheriff is
disqualified, the process shall be directed to
any of the coroners of the county or district.
R.S., c. 98, s. 74.

**75.** (1) When a defendant, whether a
British subject or a foreigner is out of the
jurisdiction of the Exchequer Court and
whether in a Commonwealth country or in a
foreign country, the Court or a judge, upon
application, supported by affidavit or other
evidence, stating that, in the belief of the
deponent, the plaintiff has a good cause of
action, and showing in what place or country
such defendant is or probably may be found,
may order that a notice of the information,
petition of right, or statement of claim be
served on the defendant in such place or
country or within such limits as the Court or
a judge thinks fit to direct.
(2) The order shall in such case limit a
time, depending on the place of service,
within which the defendant is to file his
statement in defence, plea, answer, exception
or demurrer, or otherwise make his defence,
according to the practice applicable to the
particular case, or obtain from the Court or a
judge further time to do so.
(3) Upon service being effected as author
ized by the order, the Court has jurisdiction
to proceed and adjudicate in the cause or
matter to all intents and purposes in the same
manner, to the same extent, and with the like
effect as if the defendant had been duly
served within the jurisdiction of the Court.
R.S., c. 98, s. 75.

**76.** Every commissioner for administering
in the Exchequer Court, who resides
Canada, may take and receive acknowl
edgments or recognizances of bail, and all
recognizances in the Exchequer Court.
R.S., c. 98, s. 76.

**77.** An order for payment of money,
whether for costs or otherwise, may be enforced
by the same writs of execution as a judgment.
R.S., c. 98, s. 77.

**78.** No attachment as for contempt shall
issue for the non-payment of money only.
R.S., c. 98, s. 78.

**79.** Any moneys or costs awarded to the
Crown shall be paid to the Receiver General,
and he shall pay, out of any unappropriated
moneys forming part of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund, any moneys or costs awarded
to any person against the Crown. R.S., c. 98,
s. 79 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**80.** (1) All fees payable to the Registrar
under this Act shall be paid into the
Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Regis
trar shall regulate the collection of such fees.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to fees
collected by an official of a provincial court,
acting as a Deputy Registrar of the Exchequer
Court in accordance with any arrangement in
that behalf made by the Minister of Justice,
and any fees so collected shall be retained
and dealt with in the same manner as amounts
paid as provincial court fees. 1966-67, c. 39,
s. 1.

**81.** The judge of the Court shall file with
the Registrar a copy of the reasons, if any,
given by him for any judgment pronounced
by him. R.S., c. 98, s. 81.

## APPEALS

**82.** (1) An appeal to the Supreme Court of
Canada lies
  * (_a_) from a final judgment or a judgment
upon a demurrer or point of law raised by
the pleadings, and
(6) with leave of a judge of the Supreme
Court of Canada, from an interlocutory
judgment,
by the Exchequer Court in an
action, suit, cause, matter or other judicial
proceeding, in which the actual amount in
controversy exceeds five hundred dollars.
(2) An appeal under this section shall be
brou .g ht by serving a notice of appeal on all
parties directly affected and by depositing
with the Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Canada the sum of fifty dollars by way of
security for costs; the notice of appeal with
evidence of service thereof shall be filed with
the Registrar of the Supreme Court of Canada
and a copy of the notice shall be filed with
the Registrar of the Exchequer Court.
(3) The notice of appeal shall be served
and filed and the security shall be deposited
within sixty days (in the calculation of which
July and August shall be excluded) from the
signing or entry or pronouncing of the
judgment appealed from or within such
further time as a judge of the Exchequer
Court, or in the case of an appeal from an
interlocutory judgment a judge of the
Supreme Court of Canada, may either before
or after the expiry of the said sixty days fix
or allow.
(4) j n suc h notice the party so appealing
may, if he so desires, limit the subject of the
appeal to any special defined question or
questions.
(5) A judgment is final for the purpose of
this section if it determines the rights of the
parties, except as to the amount of the
damages or the amount of liability. R.S., c.
98, s. 82.

**83.** No appeal lies from any judgment of
the Exchequer Court in any action, suit,
cause, matter or other judicial proceeding,
wherein the actual amount in controversy
does not exceed the sum or value of five
hundred dollars, unless such appeal is allowed
by a judge of the Supreme Court, and such
action, suit, cause, matter or other judicial
proceeding,
  * (_a_) involves the question of the validity of
an Act of the Parliament of Canada, or of
the legislature of any of the provinces of
Canada, or of an ordinance or Act of any
of the councils or legislative bodies of any
of the territories or districts of Canada, or
(6) relates to any fee of office, duty, rent,
revenue or any sum of money payable to
Her Majesty, or to any title to lands,
tenements or annual rents, or to any
question affecting any patent of invention,
copyright, trade mark or industrial design,
or to any matter or thing where rights in
future might be bound. R.S., c. 98, s. 83.

**84.** (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
Act an a PP 6al lieS On behalf f the CrOWn
from any final judgment given by the Court
in any action, suit, cause, matter or other
judicial proceeding wherein the Crown is a
party, in which the actual amount in
controversy does not exceed five hundred
dollars, if
  * (_a_) such final judgment or the principle
affirmed thereby affects or is likely to affect
any case or class of cases then pending or
likely to be instituted wherein the aggregate
amount claimed or to be claimed exceeds
or will probably exceed five hundred dollars,
or
(6) in the opinion of the Attorney General
of Canada, certified in writing, the principle
affirmed by the decision is of general public
importance, and
  * (_c_) such appeal is allowed by a judge of the
Supreme Court.
(2) In case of such appeal being allowed by
a judge of the Supreme Court, he may impose
such terms as to costs and otherwise as he
thinks the justice of the case requires. R.S., c.
98, s. 84.

**85.** If the appeal is by or on behalf of the
Crown no deposit is necessary. U.S., c. 98,
s. 85.

**86.** Every appeal from the Exchequer
Court set down for hearing before the Supreme
Court shall be entered by the Registrar on
the list for the province in which the action,
matter or proceedings, the subject of the
appeal, was tried or heard by the Exchequer
Court ; or if such action, matter or proceeding
was partly heard or tried in one province and
in another, then on the list that the
thinks most convenient for the
to the appeal. R.S., c. 98, s. 86.

## RULES AND ORDERS

**87.** (1) The judges of the Court may, from
to time, make general rules and orders
  * (_a_) for regulating the practice and procedure
of and in the Exchequer Court, including,
without restricting the generality of the
foregoing,
  * (_i_) rules providing for the examination
for discovery, in a proceeding to which
the Crown is a party, of a departmental
or other officer of the Crown, and
  * (_ii_) rules providing for the medical exami
nation of a person in respect of whose
injury a claim is made ;
  * (_b_) for the effectual execution and working
of this Act, and the attainment of the
intention and objects thereof;
  * (_c_) for the effectual execution and working
in respect to proceedings in such Court or
before such judge, of any Act giving
jurisdiction to such Court or judge and the
attainment of the intention and objects of
any such Act ;
  * (_d_) for fixing the fees and costs to be taxed
and allowed to, and received and taken by,
and the rights and duties of the officers of
the said Court ; and
  * (_e_) for awarding and regulating costs in
such Court in favour of or against the
Crown, as well as the subject.
(2) In addition to any powers, jurisdiction
and authority conferred upon the Registrar
by this or any other Act of the Parliament of
Canada, the judges of the Court may, by any
general rule or order empower the Registrar
to do any such thing and transact any such
business as is specified in such rule or order,
and to exercise any authority and jurisdiction
in respect of the same as is now or may be
hereafter done, transacted or exercised by a
of the Court sitting in chambers in
virtue of any statute or custom or by the
practice of the Court. R.S., c. 98, s. 87.

**88.** (1) Rules and orders made under
section 87 may extend to any matter of
procedure or otherwise, not provided for by
any Act, but for which it is found necessary
to provide in order to ensure their proper
working and the better attainment of their
objects.
(2) Copies of all such rules and orders shall
be laid before both Houses of Parliament
within ten days after the opening of the
session next after their making.
(3) All such rules and orders and every
portion of the same not inconsistent with the
express provisions of any Act have and
continue to have force and effect as if enacted
in this Act, unless during such session an
address of either the Senate or House of
Commons is passed for their repeal in whole
or in part, in which case the whole or the part
is repealed; but the Governor in Council
may, by proclamation, published in the
Canada Gazette, or either House of Parliament
may, by any resolution passed at any time
within thirty days after such rules and orders
have been laid before Parliament, suspend
any rule or order made under this Act ; and
such rule or order thereupon ceases to have
force and effect until the end of the then next
session of Parliament. R.S., c. 98, s. 88.
