
## CHAPTER E- 17
Act respecting the export and import of
strategic and other goods

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Export and
Import Permits Act. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Area Control List" means a list of countries
established under section 4 ;
"Export Control List" means a list of goods
established under section 3 ;
"Import Control List" means a list of goods
established under section 5 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Industry,
Trade and Commerce, and includes any
person authorized by him to perform his
functions under this Act ;
"resident of Canada" means, in the case of a
natural person, a person who ordinarily
resides in Canada and, in the case of a
corporation, a corporation having its head
office in Canada or operating a branch
office in Canada. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 2 ; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 101.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL LISTS

**3.** The Governor in Council may establish
a list of goods, to be called an Export Control
List, including therein any article the export
of which he deems it necessary to control for
any of the following purposes, namely :
being converted thereinto or made useful
in the production thereof or otherwise
having a strategic nature or value will not
be made available to any destination
wherein their use might be detrimental to
the security of Canada ;
(6) to implement an intergovernmental
arrangement or commitment ; or
  * (_c_) to ensure that there is an adequate
supply and distribution of such article in
Canada for defence or other needs. 1953-54,
c. 27, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may establish
a list of countries, to be called an Area
Control List, including therein any country
to which he deems it necessary to control the
export of any goods. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may establish
a list of goods, to be called an Import Control
List, including therein any article the import
of which he deems it necessary to control for
any of the following purposes, namely:
  * (_a_) to ensure, in accordance with the needs
of Canada, the best possible supply and
distribution of an article that is scarce in
world markets or is subject to governmental
controls in the countries of origin or to
allocation by intergovernmental arrange
ment ;
(6) to implement any action taken under
the Agricultural Stabilization Act, the Fish
eries Prices Support Act, the Agricultural
Products Cooperative Marketing Act, the
Agricultural Products Board Act or the
Canadian Dairy Commission Act, to support
the price of the article or that has the effect
of supporting the price of the article ; or
  * (_c_) to implement an intergovernmental
arrangement or commitment ;
and where any goods are included in the list
for the purpose of ensuring supply or
the effect or a summary of the arrangement
commitment, if it has not previously been
laid before Parliament, shall be laid before
Parliament at the time the order of the
Governor in Council including those goods in
the list is laid before Parliament pursuant to
the Regulations Act. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 5 ; 1957-
58, c. 22, s. 15(5); 1960, c. 12, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c.
19, s. 1.

**6.** The Governor in Council may revoke,
amend, vary or re-establish any Area Control
List, Export Control List or Import Control
List. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 6.

## PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES

**7.** The Minister may issue to any resident
of Canada applying therefor a permit to
export goods included in an Export Control
List or to a country included in an Area
Control List, in such quantity and of such
quality, by such persons, to such places or
persons and subject to such other terms and
conditions as are described in the permit or
in the regulations. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 7.

**8.** The Minister may issue to any resident
of Canada applying therefor a permit to
import goods included in an Import Control
List, in such quantity and of such quality, by
such persons, from such places or persons and
subject to such other terms and conditions as
are described in the permit or in the
regulations. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 8.

**9.** The Minister may, in order to facilitate
importation of goods into Canada and
compliance with the laws of the country of
export, issue to any resident of Canada
applying therefor an import certificate stating
that the applicant has undertaken to import
the goods described in the certificate within
the time specified therein and containing
such other information as the regulations
require. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 9.

**10.** The Minister may amend, suspend,
cancel or reinstate any permit, certificate or
other authorization issued or granted under
Act. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 10.

**11.** A permit, certificate or other authori
zation issued or granted under this Act does
not affect the obligation of any person to
obtain any licence, permit or certificate to
export or import that may be required under
this or any other law or to pay any tax, duty,
toll, impost or other sum required by any law
to be paid in respect of the exportation or
importation of goods. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 11.

## REGULATIONS
J2. The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the information and under
takings to be furnished by applicants for
permits, certificates or other authorizations
under this Act, the procedure to be followed
in applying for and issuing or granting
permits, certificates or other authorizations,
the duration thereof, and the terms and
conditions, including those with reference
to shipping or other documents, upon which
permits, certificates or other authorizations
may be issued or granted under this Act ;
  * (_b_) respecting information to be supplied
by persons to whom permits, certificates or
other authorizations have been issued or
granted under this Act and any other
matter associated with their use ;
  * (_c_) respecting the issue of and conditions or
requirements applicable to general permits
or general certificates ;
  * (_d_) respecting the certification, authoriza
tion or other control of any in-transit
movement through any port or place of any
goods that are exported from Canada or of
any goods that come into any port or place
in Canada ;
  * (_e_) exempting any person or goods or any
class of persons or goods from the operation
of any or all of the provisions of this Act ;
and
(/) generally for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1953-54, c. 27,
s. 12.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**13.** No person shall export or attempt to
export any goods included in an Export
Control List or any goods to any country
included in an Area Control List except under
the authority of and in accordance with an
export permit issued under this Act. 1953-54,
c. 27, s. 13.

**14.** No person shall import or attempt to
import any goods included in an Import
Control List except under the authority of
and in accordance with an import permit
issued under this Act. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 14.

**15.** Except with the authority in writing
of the Minister, no person shall knowingly do
anything in Canada that causes or assists or
is intended to cause or assist any shipment,
transhipment or diversion of any goods
included in an Export Control List to be
made, from Canada or any other place, to
any country included in an Area Control List.
1953-54, c. 27, s. 15.

**16.** No person who is authorized under a
permit issued under this Act to export or
import goods shall transfer the permit to, or
allow it to be used by, a person who is not so
authorized. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 16.

**17.** No person shall wilfully furnish any
false or misleading information or knowingly
make any misrepresentation in any applica
tion for a permit, certificate or other authori
zation under this Act or for the purpose of
procuring its issue or grant or in connection
with any subsequent use of such permit,
certificate or other authorization or the
exportation, importation or disposition of
goods to which it relates. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 17.

**18.** No person shall knowingly induce, aid
abet any person to violate a provision of
this Act or the regulations. 1953-54, c. 27,

**18.**

**19.** (1) Every person who violates any of
the provisions of this Act or the regulations is
guilty of an offence and is liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding
twelve months or to both ; or
(6) on conviction upon indictment to a fine
not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both.
(2) A prosecution under paragraph (l)(a)
may be instituted at any time within three
years from the time when the subject-matter
of the complaint arose. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 19.

**20.** Where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a corporation, whether or
not the corporation has been prosecuted or
convicted, every person who at the time of
the commission of the offence was a director
or officer of the corporation, is guilty of the
like offence and is liable, on conviction, to
the punishment provided for the offence,
upon proof that the act or omission constitut
ing the offence took place with his knowledge
or consent or that he failed to exercise due
diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 20.
2 1. Where a permit under this Act is issued
to a person who has applied for it for or on
behalf of or for the use of another person who
is not a resident of Canada and such other
person commits an offence under this Act, the
person who applied for the permit is, whether
or not the non-resident has been prosecuted
or convicted, guilty of the like offence and is
liable, on conviction, to the punishment
provided for the offence, upon proof that the
act or omission constituting the offence took
place with his knowledge or consent or that
he failed to exercise due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence. 1953-54, c. 27,
s. 21.

**22.** (1) Any proceeding in respect of an
under this Act may be instituted,
tried or determined at the place in Canada
the offence was committed or at the
place in Canada in which the person charged
with the offence is, resides or has an office or
place of business at the time of institution of
the proceedings.
(2) In any proceedings in respect of offences
under this Act, an information may include
more than one offence committed by the same
person and all such offences may be tried
concurrently and one conviction for any or
all offences may be made, and no information,
warrant, summons, conviction or other pro
ceedings for such offences shall be deemed
objectionable on the ground that it relates to
two or more offences. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 22.

**23.** Where it appears from the original or
a copy of a bill of lading, customs form,
commercial invoice or other document (herein
after called a "shipping document") that
  * (_o_) goods were shipped or sent from Canada
or came into Canada,
  * (_b_) a person, as shipper, consignor or
consignee, shipped or sent goods from
Canada or brought goods into Canada, or
  * (_c_) goods were sent to a destination or
person other than as authorized in any
export or import permit relating to the
goods,
the shipping document is admissible in
evidence in any prosecution under this Act in
respect of those goods and is prime facie proof
of any of the facts set out in paragraph (a),
(6) or (c) appearing therefrom. 1953-54, c. 27,
s. 23.

## GENERAL
not violated any of the provisions of this Act
or the regulations and that all requirements
of this Act and the regulations with reference
to those goods have been complied with. 1953-
54, c. 27, s. 24.

**25.** All officers, as defined in the Customs
Act, have, with respect to any goods to which
this Act applies, all the powers they have
under the Customs Act with respect to the
importation and exportation of goods, and
all the provisions of that Act and the
regulations thereunder respecting search,
detention, seizure, forfeiture and condemna
tion apply, mutatis mutandis, to any goods
that are tendered for export or import or
exported or imported or otherwise dealt with
contrary to this Act and the regulations and
to all documents relating to such goods. 1953-
54, c. 27, s. 25.

**26.** As soon as practicable after the 31st
day of December of each year the Minister
shall prepare and lay before Parliament a
report of the operations under this Act for
that year. 1953-54, c. 27, s. 26.

**27.** This Act shall expire on the 31st day
of July 1974. 1957, c. 7, s. 1 ; 1960, c. 12, s. 2 ;
1963, c. 4, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 16, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c.
19, s. 2.
