
## CHAPTER E- 18
Act to establish the Export Development
Corporation and to facilitate and develop
export trade by the provision of insurance,
guarantees, loans and other financial
facilities

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Export
Development Act. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the
Corporation ;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the
Board ;
"Corporation" means the Export Develop
ment Corporation established by section 3 ;
"director" means a director of the Corpora
tion;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"President" means the President of the
Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 2.

## PARTI

## EXPORT DEVELOPMENT

## CORPORATION
Corporation Established

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
known as the Export Development Corpo
consisting of a Board of Directors
of a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman
and ten other directors. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Chairman and seven other
directors shall be appointed by the Governor
in Council from among persons employed in
the public service of Canada.
(2) The Vice-Chairman shall be elected by
the Board from among its members.
(3) The four directors not appointed from
among persons employed in the public service
of Canada shall be appointed by the Governor
in Council to hold office during pleasure for
such term, not exceeding five years, as will
ensure as far as possible the expiration in any
one year of the term of not more than one
such appointee.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), each director
not appointed from among persons employed
in the public service of Canada is eligible for
re-appointment upon the expiration of his
term of office, but any such director who has
served two consecutive terms is not, during
the twelve months following the completion
of his second term, eligible to be re-appointed
a director of the Corporation.
(5) A director ceases to be a director of the
Corporation upon attaining the age of seventy
years. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may appoint
a person to be an alternate director for any
director who is selected from among persons
employed in the public service of Canada and
the alternate director so appointed shall act
as a director of the Corporation during any
period in which the director for whom he is
an alternate is, by reason of absence or
incapacity, unable to act. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 5.

**6.** The Chairman shall preside at meetings
of the Board but in the event of the absence
or incapacity of the Chairman, or if the office
of Chairman is vacant, the Vice-Chairman
shall preside at such meetings. 1968-69, c. 39,
s. 6.
Executive Committee

**7.** (1) There shall be an Executive Com
of the Board consisting of the
the President and three other
selected by the Board.
(2) The Executive Committee may exercise
any powers and perform any duties of the
Board delegated to it by the Board. 1968-69,
c. 39, s. 7.
President

**8.** (1) There shall be a President of the
Corporation appointed by the Governor in
Council from among the directors of the
Corporation.
(2) The President is the chief executive
officer of the Corporation and has on behalf
of the Board the direction and management
of the business of the Corporation with
authority to act in the conduct of the business
of the Corporation in all matters that are not
by this Act or by the by-laws of the
Corporation specifically reserved to the Board
or the Executive Committee.
(3) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the President, or if the office of President
is vacant, the Board shall authorize a director
or an officer of the Corporation to act as the
President for the time being and shall fix the
terms and conditions of his appointment and
his remuneration, but no person so authorized
by the Board has authority to act as President
for a period exceeding sixty days without the
approval of the Governor in Council. 1968-69,
c. 39, s. 8.
Salaries and Expenses

**9.** (i) Subject to subsection (2), each of the
directors not selected from among persons
employed in the public service of Canada
shall be paid by the Corporation such salary,
fees or other remuneration as is fixed by by
law of the Corporation and each director is
entitled to be paid by the Corporation
reasonable travelling and other expenses
incurred by him in the course of his duties
under this Act.
The President sha11 be aid the
in Council. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 9.
Purposes and Powers

**10.** (1) The Corporation is established for
the purposes of facilitating and developing
trade between Canada and other countries by
means of the financial and other powers
provided in this Act, and for such purposes
the Corporation may
  * (_a_) acquire and hold real property for its
actual use in the operation and management
of its business and sell, lease or otherwise
dispose of such property ;
(6) as additional security for any loan made
or guarantee given under this Act, take,
hold and sell mortgages on real and personal
property and any other security ;
  * (_c_) acquire, by foreclosure or other proceed
ings or in any other manner, and hold any
real and .personal property mortgaged to
the Corporation and sell, lease or otherwise
dispose of such property ;
  * (_d_) establish offices and employ agents in
any part of Canada and, if necessary,
employ agents elsewhere than in Canada
for the purpose of enforcing any right that
may be vested in the Corporation ;
  * (_e_) invest moneys of the Corporation in
bonds, stocks, debentures or other securities
of or guaranteed by the Government of
Canada ;
  * (_f_) take such steps and do all such things as
to it appear necessary or desirable to protect
the interests of the Corporation ; and
  * (_g_) generally, do all such other things as
are incidental or conducive to the exercise
of its powers and functions and the conduct
of its business.
(2) In exercising its powers under this Act
the Corporation shall, where appropriate,
make use of the services and facilities of
departments, branches and agencies of the
Government of Canada. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 10.
Capital and Shares

**11.** (1) The authorized capital of the
is twenty-five million dollars,
divided into 250,000 shares of the par value
(2) The Minister shall subscribe for all the
shares of the Corporation at par and the
Minister of Finance shall pay to the Corpo
ration the amount of such subscription out of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund at such times
and in such amounts as the Board requires.
(3) Whenever the Minister of Finance pays
any part of a subscription for shares pursuant
to subsection (2), he shall in addition pay to
the Corporation out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund an equal amount to be credited
to the capital surplus account of the Corpo
ration, which account shall not exceed in the
aggregate twenty-five million dollars.
(4) The shares of the capital stock of the
Corporation are not transferable and shall be
held in trust for Her Majesty. 1968-69, c. 39,
s. 11.

**12.** The Corporation may, with the approv
al of the Minister of Finance, issue and sell
bonds, debentures and other evidences of
indebtedness of the Corporation. 1968-69, c.
39, s. 12.

**13.** At the request of the Corporation, the
Minister of Finance may, out of the Con
solidated Revenue Fund, from time to time
lend money to the Corporation on such terms
and conditions as are fixed by him. 1968-69,
c. 39, s. 13.

**14.** The aggregate amount of borrowings
of the Corporation pursuant to sections 12
and 13 and outstanding shall not exceed an
amount equal to fifteen times the aggregate
of the subscribed capital and the amount
credited to the capital surplus account of the
Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 14.

**15.** The Corporation may establish one or
more reserves out of which may be paid any
losses sustained by the Corporation in the
conduct of its business. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 15.
By-laws

**16.** (1) The Board may make by-laws
  * (_a_) for the regulation of its proceedings,
including the delegation of any of its
powers and duties to the Executive Com-
mittee and the fixing of quorums for
meetings of the Board and the Executive
Committee ;
(6) prescribing the duties of any officers
and employees of the Corporation ;
  * (_c_) delegating to the President the conduct
of any business of the Board ;
  * (_d_) fixing the salaries, fees or other remu
neration to be paid to directors not selected
from among persons employed in the public
service of Canada ; and
  * (_e_) generally, for the conduct and manage
ment of its activities.
(2) No by-law made under subsection (1)
has any effect unless it has been approved by
the Minister.
(3) Every by-law made under subsection (1)
shall be laid before Parliament within fifteen
days after it has been approved by the
Minister, or, if Parliament is not then sitting,
on any of the first fifteen days next thereafter
that Parliament is sitting. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 16.
General

**17.** The head office of the Corporation
shall be in the National Capital Region
described in the schedule to the National
Capital Act. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 17.

**18.** (1) The Corporation is for all purposes
an agent of Her Majesty and its powers may
be exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(3) Property acquired by the Corporation
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
have jurisdiction if the Corporation
not an agent of Her Majesty.
(5) The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
to the Corporation or to the property
the Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 18.

**19.** The Board may, subject to this Act or
any by-law of the Board, determine the terms
and conditions upon which the Corporation
may enter into any contract of insurance or
other agreement, issue any guarantee or make
any loan under this Act. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 19.

**20.** The Corporation may employ such
officers and employees and such consultants
and advisers as it deems necessary to carry
out its purposes and shall fix the terms and
conditions of their employment and their
remuneration, which shall be paid by the
Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 20.
2 1. The accounts of the Corporation shall
be audited by the Auditor General of Canada.
1968-69, c. 39, s. 21.

**22.** Section 101 of the Income Tax Act does
not apply to the Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39,
s. 22.

## PART II

## INSURANCE, GUARANTEES AND

## LOANS

**23.** In this Part
"export credits agency" means a corporation,
commission, board, agency of a government
or body incorporated or established in a
country other than Canada and having
purposes similar to those of the Corpora
tion;
"export transaction" means a transaction
involving
  * (_a_) the export of goods out of Canada,
(6) the manufacture, treatment or servicing
of goods for, or the sale or leasing of goods
to, a foreign customer,
  * (_c_) the sale or licensing of any right in a
patent, trade mark or copyright to a foreign
customer, or
  * (_d_) the rendering to a foreign customer of
any managerial, construction, technologi
cal, marketing or other services;
"foreign customer" means a person carrying
on business or other activities outside
Canada and includes a foreign government ;
government" means the government
or any agency thereof of a foreign country
or the government or any agency thereof of
any political subdivision of a foreign
country ;
"former Act" means Part I of the Export
Credits Insurance Act ;
"goods" means goods, wares and merchandise
as defined in the Bank Act;
"guaranteed instrument" means an instru
ment, the payment of which is guaranteed
by the Corporation under this Act or the
former Act ;
"instrument" means a promissory note, bill
of exchange or other negotiable instrument
payable by a foreign customer, a bond,
debenture or any other evidence of indebt
edness issued or given by a foreign customer,
and in the case of a foreign government,
includes an agreement to pay ;
"investment in a foreign country" means
  * (_a_) the acquisition of shares, stock, or any
other interest in a corporation incorporated
and carrying on, or proposing to carry on
business, in a foreign country,
  * (_b_) the acquisition of a right to share in the
assets of a business carried on, or proposed
to be carried on, in a foreign country,
whether as a corporation or otherwise,
  * (_c_) the lending of money to a person in a
foreign country for use by him in or in
connection with a business carried on, or
proposed to be carried on, by him in that
country, or
  * (_d_) the transferring of any money or the
shipping of goods or equipment, to a foreign
country for use in or in connection with a
business carried on, or proposed to be
carried on, in that country by the person
transferring the money or shipping the
goods or equipment ;
"investor" means a person carrying on business
or other activities in Canada who is
planning an investment in a foreign country.
1968-69, c. 39, s. 23.
Export Credits Insurance and Guarantees

**24.** (1) For the purpose of facilitating and
developing trade between Canada and any
foreign country, the Corporation may
  * (_a_) enter into a contract of insurance with
a person carrying on business or other
activities in Canada to insure that person
(hereinafter referred to as the "insured")
against any risk of loss under or in respect
of an export transaction, from any cause
not avoidable by him or his foreign affiliate,
if any, including, without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, any risk of loss
  * (_i_) by reason of the failure of the insured,
for any cause not avoidable by him or his
foreign affiliate, if any, to recover any
money payable to him, or to receive any
goods or services to which he is entitled,
under or in respect of an export transac
tion entered into between him and a
foreign customer,
  * (_ii_) by reason of the insured or his foreign
affiliate, if any, being deprived, for any
cause not avoidable by him or his foreign
affiliate, of the use or ownership of any
property employed or to be employed
outside Canada under or in respect of an
export transaction,
  * (_iii_) by reason of the failure of the
insured, for any cause not avoidable by
him or his foreign affiliate, if any, to
recover from a foreign customer any
money that he paid or advanced on
behalf of that foreign customer under or
in respect of an export transaction, or
  * (_iv_) from any cause not avoidable by the
insured or his foreign affiliate, if any,
arising out of the export of goods out of
Canada for exhibition, demonstration or
any similar purposes, or on consignment
for sale ; and
(6) issue guarantees, by appropriate
endorsement of instruments or otherwise, to
any person in connection with an export
transaction in respect of which a contract
of insurance has been or could be entered
into under paragraph (a).
(2) The Corporation, in entering into a
contract of r insurance pursuant to paragraph
(l)(a), may agree with the insured that an
export transaction between a foreign customer
and a foreign affiliate of the insured shall be
treated as an export transaction between the
foreign customer and the insured, and that
any loss to the foreign affiliate under or in
respect of the transaction shall be deemed to
be a loss to the insured.
(3) In this section "foreign affiliate" means,
in relation to an insured, a corporation
carrying on business outside Canada that is
  * (_a_) directly or indirectly controlled by the
insured ;
  * (_b_) directly or indirectly controlling the
insured ; or
  * (_c_) directly or indirectly controlled by a
person who directly or indirectly controls
the insured. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 24.

**25.** For the purpose of facilitating and
developing trade between Canada and any
foreign country, the Corporation may enter
into a contract of insurance with any export
credits agency whereby
  * (_a_) the Corporation will undertake to insure
that agency against its liability to any
person carrying on business or other activi
ties in the country in which that agency is
incorporated or established, as a result of
loss arising out of an export transaction ; or
(6) that agency will undertake to insure the
Corporation against its liability to a person
carrying on business or other activities in
Canada under a contract of insurance
entered into under section 24 or 27 as a
result of a loss arising out of an export
transaction. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 25.

**26.** The liability of the Corporation under
contracts of insurance entered into and
guarantees issued under sections 24 and 25 of
this Act and sections 13 and 13A of the former
Act and outstanding shall not at any time
credited to the capital surplus account
the Corporation. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 26.

**27.** (1) Where the Minister reports to the
Governor in Council that
  * (_a_) the Board is of opinion that a proposed
contract of insurance or guarantee of the
kind described in section 24 or 25 would, if
entered into or issued, impose upon the
Corporation a liability for a term or in an
amount in excess of that which the
Corporation would normally undertake in
relation to any one contract, person,
commodity, service or country or in relation
to a particular contract, person, commodity,
service or country, and
  * (_b_) in the opinion of the Minister it is in
the national interest that the proposed
contract be entered into, the proposed
guarantee be issued, or the proposed contract
be entered into and a guarantee issued in
connection therewith,
the Governor in Council may authorize the
Corporation to enter into the proposed
contract of insurance, issue the proposed
guarantee or enter into the proposed contract
of insurance and issue the proposed guarantee
in connection therewith, as the case may be.
(2) All moneys required by the Corporation
to discharge its liabilities under contracts of
insurance entered into or guarantees issued
under this section or section 21 of the former
Act shall be paid to the Corporation by the
Minister of Finance out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.
(3) The Corporation shall maintain a
separate account of all moneys received by
way of receipts and recoveries and of all
disbursements made in connection with con
tracts of insurance entered into and guarantees
issued under this section and section 21 of the
former Act and shall, subject to subsection (4),
pay to the Receiver General all such receipts
and recoveries.
(4) The Minister of Finance may authorize
the Corporation to retain from any receipts
and recoveries described in subsection (3) such
part thereof as he considers to be required to
meet the expenses and overhead of the
Corporation arising out of contracts of
insurance and guarantees described in that
1968-69, c. 39, s. 27.

**28.** The liability of the Corporation under
contracts of insurance entered into and
guarantees issued under section 27 of this Act
and section 21 of the former Act and
outstanding shall not at any time exceed five
hundred million dollars. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 28.
Export Loans and Guarantees

**29.** Where, in the opinion of the Board, it
would be conducive to the development of
trade between Canada and any foreign
country, the Corporation may,
  * (_a_) in respect of an export transaction, lend
money to a foreign customer upon the
security of an instrument ;
  * (_b_) guarantee, by an appropriate endorse
ment or otherwise, the payment of an
instrument given, made or accepted by a
foreign customer under or in respect of an
export transaction ;
  * (_c_) act as agent for any person, government
or agency of a government in respect of an
export transaction ; and
  * (_d_) authorize any person, government or
agency of a government to act as agent for
the Corporation in respect of any of the
matters referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(6) of this section. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 29.

**30.** The liability of
  * (_a_) foreign customers under all outstanding
instruments accepted by the Corporation or
guaranteed by it pursuant to section 29 of
this Act or section 21 A of the former Act,
and
  * (_b_) foreign governments under all outstand
ing promissory notes, bills of exchange or
other negotiable instruments accepted by
the Corporation pursuant to section 21A of
the former Act,
shall not at any time exceed six hundred
million dollars. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 30.

**31.** (1) Where the Minister reports to the
a term or in an amount in excess of that
which the Corporation would normally
undertake in relation to any one export
transaction, person, country, government or
agency thereof or in relation to a particular
export transaction, person, country, govern
ment or agency thereof, and
  * (_b_) in the opinion of the Minister it is in
the national interest that the proposed loan
be made or guarantee issued,
the Governor in Council may authorize the
Corporation to make the proposed loan or
give the proposed guarantee, as the case may
be.
(2) All moneys required by the Corporation
^ or ma king loans or implementing a guarantee
issued under this section shall be paid to the
Corporation by the Minister of Finance out
of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(3) The Corporation shall maintain a
separate account of all moneys received by
way of receipts and recoveries and of all
disbursements made in connection with loans
made and guarantees issued under this section
and shall, subject to subsection (4), pay to the
Receiver General all such receipts and
recoveries.
(4) The Minister of Finance may authorize
the Corporation to retain from any receipts
and recoveries described in subsection (3) such
part thereof as he considers to be required to
meet the expenses and overhead of the
Corporation arising out of loans and guaran
tees described in that subsection.
(5) When authorized by the Governor in
Council, the Corporation may
  * (_a_) accept in exchange for an instrument
held by it as security under this section, an
instrument given or issued to the Corpora
tion by a foreign government that has
requested the exchange and that is a
government in the country in which the
foreign customer who is liable to make
payment to the Corporation on the instru
ment so held as security is resident ; and
(6) enter into an agreement with a foreign
customer or with a foreign customer and a
government in the country in which that
foreign customer is resident providing for
the variation of the provisions for payment
to the Corporation contained in any
instrument held by the Corporation as
security under this section for a debt owed
to it by that foreign customer or the
acceptance in exchange for that instrument
of another instrument. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 31.

**32.** The liability of foreign customers under
all outstanding instruments accepted by the
Corporation or guaranteed by it pursuant to
section 31 shall not at any time exceed two
hundred million dollars. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 32.
Additional Financial Powers
33, Where, in the opinion of the Board, it
wou ld be conducive to the carrying on of the
business of the Corporation, the Corporation
may, with the approval of the Minister of
Finance,
  * (_a_) negotiate, sell or otherwise dispose of
  * (_i_) a negotiable instrument guaranteed
by it,
  * (_ii_) a negotiable instrument made paya
ble to the Corporation or an interest in
any such instrument, or
  * (_iii_) a negotiable instrument made or
accepted by a foreign customer under or
in respect of an export transaction in
respect of which a contract of insurance
has been entered into under section 24 or
27;
(6) purchase any instrument described in
paragraph (a) or an interest in any such
instrument ; and
  * (_c_) lend money to the holder of any
instrument described in paragraph (a) upon
the security thereof. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 33.
Foreign Investment Insurance

**34.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Cor
poration may, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, enter into a contract of
insurance with an investor to insure him
against the risk of loss of or in respect of an
investment in a foreign country by reason of
  * (_a_) war, riot, insurrection, revolution or
rebellion in that country ;
(6) the expropriation, confiscation or dep
rivation of the use of, or the arbitrary
seizure of any property by a government,
or an agency thereof, in that country ;
  * (_c_) any action by a government, or an
agency thereof, in that country, other than
action of the kind described in paragraph
(6) that deprives the investor of any rights
in, or in connection with, an investment ;
and
  * (_d_) any action by a government, or an
agency thereof, in that country, that
prohibits or restricts the transfer of any
money or the removal of any property from
that country.
(2) The Governor in Council shall not
authorize the Corporation to enter into a
contract of insurance pursuant to subsection

## (D
  * (_a_) in respect of any investment in a foreign
country that will not provide economic
advantages to Canada or contribute to the
economic growth and development of the
country in which it is made ;
  * (_b_) that would insure an investor against
the risk of loss of or in respect of any
investment in a foreign country made prior
to the 1st day of October 1969;
  * (_c_) that would insure an investor against
the risk of loss in any country for a period
of more than fifteen years ; or
  * (_d_) that would insure an investor against
the risk of loss in a country, the government
of which has not given a written assurance
satisfactory to the Government of Canada
that, in the event of the payment by the
Corporation of any loss under a contract of
insurance entered into pursuant to subsec
tion (1), the Corporation will be
  * (_i_) recognized by that government and
by the laws of that country as the
successor to, or subrogated to all the
rights of, the investor for the purpose of
recovering the amount of that loss, and
  * (_ii_) accorded by that government and by
the laws of that country treatment as
favourable as that accorded other persons
suffering loss by reason of the causes
described in subsection (1). 1968-69, c. 39,
s. 34.

**35.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
in Council the Corporation may, in entering
into a contract of insurance pursuant to
be treated as an investment in a foreign
by the investor.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a
corporation is a subsidiary of an investor if
more than fifty per cent of its shares having
voting rights under all circumstances are held
by the investor. 1968-69, c. 39, s. 35.

**36.** (1) All moneys required by the Corpo
ration to discharge its liabilities under
contracts of insurance entered into under
section 34 shall be paid to the Corporation by
the Minister of Finance out of the Consolidat
ed Revenue Fund.
(2) The Corporation shall maintain a
separate account of all moneys received by
way of receipts and recoveries and of all
disbursements made in connection with con
tracts of insurance entered into under section
34 and shall, subject to subsection (3), pay to
the Receiver General all such receipts and
recoveries.
(3) The Minister of Finance may authorize
the Corporation to retain from any receipts
and recoveries described in subsection (2) such
part thereof as he considers to be required to
meet the expenses and overhead of the
Corporation arising out of contracts of
insurance described in that subsection. 1968-
69, c. 39, s. 36.

**37.** The liability of the Corporation under
contracts of insurance entered into under
section 34 and outstanding shall not at any
time exceed fifty million dollars. 1968-69, c.
39, s. 37.

**38.** The Corporation may, at the request
of the Minister of Finance, act as his agent in
respect of any matter arising under Part II of
the Export Credits Insurance Act. 1968-69, c.
39, s. 39.
