
# CHAPTER E-2
Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions to
report upon the readjustment of the
representation of the provinces in the
House of Commons and to provide for
the readjustment of such representation
in accordance therewith

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"commission", with respect to any decennial
census, means the electoral boundaries
commission for that census established for
a province pursuant to section 4 ;
"Representation Commissioner" means the
Representation Commissioner appointed
pursuant to the Representation Commissioner
Act;
"Speaker" means the Speaker of the House
of Commons. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 2.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSIONS

**3.** For the decennial census taken in the
year 1961 and for each decennial census taken
thereafter, ten commissions shall be estab
lished in the manner provided in this Act, to
consider and report upon the readjustment of
the representation of the provinces in the
House of Commons required to be made upon
completion of such census. 1964-65, c. 31,

**4.** Within sixty days after the receipt by
the Secretary of State of Canada of the return
referred to in section 11 for any decennial
census, the Governor in Council shall, by
proclamation published in the Canada Gazette,
establish for that census an electoral bound
aries commission for each province. 1964-65,
c. 31,s.4.

## CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP

**5.** Each commission for a province shall
consist of four members, namely a chairman,
two other members appointed as provided in
section 6, and the Representation Commis
sioner. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The chairman of the commission for
a province shall be appointed by the chief
justice of the province from among the judges
of the court over which he presides or, after
consultation with the chief justice of any
other branch or division of that court or any
other superior court in that province, from
among the judges of that branch, division or
other superior court, but in the event that
there is no such judge able or free to act as
chairman or where for any other reason no
such appointment is made within the time
provided therefor by this Act, the Chief
Justice of Canada or in the event of his
absence or incapacity the senior puisne judge
of the Supreme Court of Canada shall make
the appointment from among such persons
resident in that province as he deems suitable.
(2) The two members of the commission for
a province other than the chairman and the
Representation Commissioner shall be
appointed by the Speaker of the House of
Commons from among such persons resident
in that province as he deems suitable.
(3) Forthwith upon the making of any
appointment as provided in this section, the
person making the appointment shall notify
the Secretary of State of Canada thereof.
(4) A reference in subsection (1) to the chief
justice of a province includes a reference to
the acting chief justice of the province or any
person performing for the time being the
of the chief justice thereof, and a
in subsection (2) to the Speaker of
House of Commons includes a reference
any person performing for the time being
duties of the Speaker. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The proclamation establishing a
commission shall name therein each of the
members thereof appointed as provided in
section 6.
(2) A commission may appoint one of its
members as deputy chairman thereof, who
shall, in the event of the absence or incapacity
of the chairman or if the office of chairman
is vacant, act as chairman.
(3) At all meetings of a commission two
members of the commission constitute a
quorum, and where at any meeting of a
commission there is an equality of votes, the
chairman or person acting as chairman has a
deciding vote.
(4) A vacancy in the membership of a
commission or in the office of chairman does
not impair the right of the remaining members
to act, but except in the case of the office of
Representation Commissioner, where any
such vacancy occurs it shall be filled within
thirty days by appointment in the manner
provided in section 6, and the person making
the appointment shall thereupon give notice
of the appointment to the Secretary of State
of Canada who shall forthwith cause the same
to be published in the Canada Gazette. 1964-
65, c. 31,s. 7.

**8.** No person is eligible to be a member of
a commission while he is a member of the
Senate or House of Commons of Canada or
is a member of a legislative assembly or
legislative council of a province. 1964-65, c.
31,s.8.

**9.** (1) Each of the members of a commission,
other than the Representation Commissioner
or a person in receipt of salary under the
from his ordinary place of residence in the
course of his duties as a member of the
commission. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 9.

**10.** A commission is not an agent of Her
Majesty and the members of a commission as
such are not part of the public service of
Canada. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 10.

## COMMENCEMENT AND PREPARATION OF

## REPORT
1 1. As soon as possible after the completion
of any decennial census, the Dominion
Statistician shall prepare and send to the
Secretary of State of Canada and to the
Representation Commissioner a return certi
fied by him showing the population of Canada
and of each of the provinces and the
population of Canada by electoral districts as
ascertained by that census, and the Represen
tation Commissioner shall, forthwith after the
establishment of the commissions for that
census pursuant to section 4, send a copy of
such return to the chairman of each of the
commissions. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 11.

**12.** Upon receipt by the Representation
Commissioner from the Dominion Statistician
of the return referred to in section 11, the
Representation Commissioner shall calculate
the number of members of the House of
Commons to be assigned to each of the
provinces, subject and according to the
provisions of section 51 of the British North
America Act, 1867 and the rules provided
therein, and upon the completion of such
calculation shall cause a statement to be
published in the Canada Gazette setting forth
the results thereof, and thereafter in accord
ance with such calculation each commission
for a province shall, with all reasonable
dispatch, prepare a report setting forth its
recommendations concerning the division of
that province into electoral districts and its
recommendations concerning the description
of the boundaries of each such district and
the representation and name to be given
thereto. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 12.

**13.** In preparing its report each commission
for a province shall be governed by the
following rules :
  * (_a_) the division of the province into electoral
and the description of the bound
thereof shall proceed on the basis that
the population of each electoral district in
the province as a result thereof shall
correspond as nearly as may be to the
electoral quota for the province, that is to
say, the quotient obtained by dividing the
population of the province as ascertained
by the census by the number of members of
the House of Commons to be assigned to
the province as calculated by the Represen
tation Commissioner under section 12;
(6) where, immediately before the 20th day
of November 1964, provision was made for
any electoral district in the province to be
represented by two members of the House
of Commons, the commission may, if it sees
fit to do so, recommend the continuation of
such representation, in which case the
division of the province into electoral
districts and the description of the bound
aries thereof in accordance with rule (a)
shall proceed subject to such adjustments
as are necessary in order to give effect to
the continuation of such representation ;
and
  * (_c_) the commission may depart from the
strict application of rules (a) and (6) in any
case where
  * (_i_) special geographic considerations,
including in particular the sparsity,
density or relative rate of growth of
population of various regions of the
province, the accessibility of such regions
or the size or shape thereof, appear to the
commission to render such a departure
necessary or desirable, or
  * (_ii_) any special community or diversity
of interests of the inhabitants of various
regions of the province appears to the
commission to render such a departure
necessary or desirable,
but in no case, except as may be necessary
in order to give effect to rule (6), shall the
population of any electoral district in the
province as a result thereof depart from the
electoral quota for that province to a greater
extent than twenty-five per cent more or
twenty-five per cent less. 1964-65, c. 31, s.

**13.**

**14.** (1) In the performance of its duties
Act.
(2) A commission may employ such techni
cal advisers and other staff, including a person
to act as secretary to the commission, as it
deems necessary and, subject to the approval
of the Treasury Board, may fix the salaries
and expenses of such persons and prescribe
the conditions of their employment. 1964-65,
c.31,8. 14.

**15.** The Dominion Statistician and the
Director of the Surveys and Mapping Branch
of the Department of Energy, Mines and
Resources shall make available their services
and the facilities of their respective offices,
and render all such other assistance to a
commission as may be necessary, in order to
enable the commission to discharge its duties
under this Act. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 15 ; 1966-67, c.
25, s. 45.

**16.** A commission may make rules for
regulating its proceedings and for the conduct
of its business, and may provide therein for
the conduct of any inquiry or hearing by one
or more of its members. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 16.

**17.** (1) A commission may, in the perfor
mance of its duties under this Act, sit at such
times and places in the province for which it
is established as it deems necessary, except
that before completing its report it shall hold
at least one sitting in that province for the
hearing of representations by interested
persons.
(2) Notice of the time and place fixed by
the commission for any sittings to be held by
it for the hearing of representations from
interested persons shall be given by advertise
ment published in the Canada Gazette and in
at least one newspaper of general circulation
in the province, at least thirty days before
the commencement of such sittings.
(3) There shall be included in the adver
tisement referred to in subsection (2) a map
or drawing prepared by the commission
showing the proposed division of the province
into electoral districts and indicating the
representation and name proposed to be given
to each such district, together with a schedule
setting forth the proposed boundaries of each
such district, which map or drawing and
schedule shall be in such form and shall
contain such detail as, in the opinion of the
commission, will be reasonably sufficient for
the purpose for which the sittings are to be
held.
(4) No representation shall be heard by a
commission at any sittings held by it for the
hearing of representations from interested
persons unless notice in writing is given to
the secretary to the commission within twenty-
three days from the date of publication of the
advertisement referred to in subsection (2),
stating the name and address of the person
by whom the representation is sought to be
made and indicating concisely the nature of
the representation and of the interest of such
person. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 17.

## COMPLETION OF REPORT
lg. Each commission shall complete its
re P ort not l ater tnan one Y ear after the receipt
by the chairman from the Representation
Commissioner of the copy of the return
referred to in section 11, and upon the
completion of such report shall cause two
certified copies thereof to be transmitted to
the Representation Commissioner. 1964-65, c.
31, s. 18.

**19.** (1) Upon receiving the certified copies
referred to in section 18 of the report of any
commission, the Representation Commission
er shall transmit one of the copies thereof to
the Speaker who shall, subject to subsection
(2), cause such copy to be laid before the
House of Commons forthwith upon its receipt
by him if Parliament is then sitting, or if
Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the
first five days next thereafter that Parliament
is sitting.
(2) Where the copy referred to in subsection
,,^ f , /. f
W * tne report of any commission for a
province is received by the Speaker during an
interval between two sessions of Parliament,
the Speaker shall forthwith cause the same to
be published in the Canada Gazette and a
copy of the said Canada Gazette to be sent by
mail to each of the members of the House of
Commons representing electoral districts in
that province. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 19.

**20.** If within a period of thirty days from
, i i , i ,- , i f
tne da y the c Py of tne report of any
commission for a province is laid before the
House of Commons or published pursuant to
section 19, an objection in writing, in the form
of a motion for consideration by the House
of Commons of the matter of the objection,
signed by not less than ten members of the
House of Commons is filed with the Speaker
specifying the provisions of the report objected
to and the reasons for the objection, the
House of Commons shall, within the first
fifteen days next after the expiration of that
period that the House of Commons is sitting,
take up the motion and consider the matter
of the objection, and thereafter the report
shall be referred back to the Representation
Commissioner by the Speaker, together with
a copy of the objection and of the House of
Commons Debates with respect thereto, for
reconsideration by the commission having
regard to the objection. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Within thirty days from the day
tne re P rt of any commission is referred back
to the Representation Commissioner by the
Speaker pursuant to section 20, the commission
shall consider the matter of the objection and
shall dispose of the objection, and forthwith
upon the disposition thereof a certified copy
of the report of the commission, with or
without amendment accordingly as the dispo
sition of the objection requires, shall be
returned by the Representation Commissioner
to the Speaker.
(2) Section 19 applies mutatis mutandis in
respect of any copy of a report returned to
the Speaker pursuant to this section. 1964-65,
c. 31,8.21.

## REPRESENTATION ORDER

**22.** (1) Where, with respect to each of the
reports referred to in section 18,
  * (_a_) it is ascertained by the Representation
Commissioner that no objection has been
filed with the Speaker in the manner and
within the time prescribed therefor in
section 20, or
(6) after the report was referred back to the
Representation Commissioner by the Speak
er, the report, with or without amendment,
has been returned by the Representation
Commissioner to the Speaker pursuant to
section 21,
the Representation Commissioner shall forth
with prepare and transmit to the Secretary of
State of Canada a draft order, hereinafter
referred to as a "representation order", in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) The draft representation order shall
  * (_a_) specify the number of members of the
House of Commons who shall be elected for
each of the provinces as calculated by the
Representation Commissioner under section
12; and
(6) divide each of the provinces into
electoral districts, describe the boundaries
of each such district and specify the
representation and name to be given thereto,
in accordance with the recommendations
contained in the reports referred to in
subsection (1). 1964-65, c. 31, s. 22.

**23.** Within five days after the receipt by
the Secretary of State of the draft represen
tation order, the Governor in Council shall
by proclamation declare the draft representa
tion order to be in force, effective upon the
dissolution of the then existing Parliament or
effective upon the dissolution of the next
following Parliament if upon the issue of the
proclamation Parliament is then dissolved,
and upon the issue of the proclamation the
order has the force of law accordingly. 1964-
65, c. 31,s.23.

**24.** The representation order and the
proclamation declaring it to be in force shall
be published in the Canada Gazette not later
than five days after the issue of the
proclamation. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 24.

**25.** (1) The whole of that part of the
representation order relating to any province
shall be read together and shall, so far as
possible, be construed as including the whole
of such province in one or another of the
districts described therein, the
of each electoral district being
accordingly construed as intended, unless the
intention appears, to include the
of the contained area whether particu
larly mentioned or not, and to include also
any area partly surrounded by the areas
expressly described that appears to have been
intended to be included ; in any doubtful case
the Representation Commissioner shall final
ly determine the electoral district, if any, of
which any area not expressly referred to was
intended to form part and shall, within the
first fifteen days of the session of Parliament
next following any such determination, report
the same, with the reasons therefor, to the
Speaker.
(2) Wherever in the representation order
any word or expression is used to denote the
name of any territorial division, such word or
expression shall, unless the context otherwise
requires, be construed as indicating the
territorial division as it existed or was bounded
immediately before the issue of the procla
mation declaring the order to be in force.
(3) Wherever in the representation order
any municipality or other place is incorrectly
referred to as a city, or a town, or a village,
but there is within the territorial limits of the
electoral district in the description of which
the reference occurs, a municipality or other
place of the same name that is a city, town
or village but is not of the class, namely city,
town or village as the case may be, specified
in the representation order, the reference shall
be taken to be to that municipality or other
place. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 25.

**26.** As soon as possible after the issue of
the proclamation declaring the representation
order to be in force, the Director of the
Surveys and Mapping Branch of the Depart
ment of Energy, Mines and Resources shall,
in accordance with the descriptions and
definitions set out in the order, and with the
cooperation of the Representation Commis
sioner, prepare and print
  * (_a_) individual maps of each electoral district
showing the boundaries of each such district ;
(6) individual maps of each province show
ing the boundaries of the electoral districts
established therein ; and
  * (_c_) individual maps of all cities and met
ropolitan municipalities, portions of which
are in more than one electoral district. 1964-
65, c. 31,s.26; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**27.** For the purpose only of authorizing
and enabling the appointment, pursuant to
the Canada Elections Act, of returning officers
whenever required, the representation order
shall be deemed to be in force effective upon
the day on which the proclamation declaring
it to be in force was issued. 1964-65, c. 31,
s. 27.

## GENERAL

**28.** All amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses under this Act,
including expenses of administration, shall be
paid out of moneys appropriated by the
Representation Commissioner Act for the pur
pose. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 28.

**29.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
there shall be in the Yukon Territory one
electoral district named and described as
follows, which shall return one member:
Yukon: consisting of the Yukon Territory
as bounded and described in the Schedule
to chapter 41 of the Statutes of Canada,

**1901.** 1964-65, c. 31,s.30.

**30.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
there shall be in the Northwest Territories
one electoral district named and described as
follows, which shall return one member :
Northwest Territories: consisting of the
Northwest Territories as bounded and
described in section 2 of the Northwest
Territories Act. 1964-65, c. 31, s. 31.
