Act. R.S., c. 322, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"conviction" or "convicted" does not include
the case of a condemnation under foreign
law by reason of contumacy; but "accused
person" includes a person so condemned ;
"extradition arrangement" or "arrangement"
means a treaty, convention or arrangement
that extends to Canada made by Her
Majesty with a foreign state for the
surrender of fugitive criminals ;
"extradition crime" may mean any crime
that, if committed in Canada, or within
Canadian jurisdiction, would be one of the
crimes described in Schedule I; and, in the
application of this Act to the case of any
extradition arrangement, "extradition
crime" means any crime described in such
arrangement, whether or not it is comprised
in that Schedule ;
"foreign state" includes every colony, depend
ency and constituent part of the foreign
state ; and every vessel of a foreign state is
deemed to be within the jurisdiction of and
to be part of the state ;
"fugitive" or "fugitive criminal" means a
person being or suspected of being in
Canada, who is accused or convicted of an
extradition crime committed within the
jurisdiction of a foreign state ;
includes any person authorized to act
judicially in extradition matters;
in the case of a foreign state,
includes any judicial document authorizing
the arrest of a person accused or convicted
of crime. R.S., c. 322, s. 2.

## PARTI

## EXTRADITION UNDER TREATY
Application of Part

**3.** In the case of any foreign state with
which there is an extradition arrangement,
this Part applies during the continuance of
such arrangement ; but no provision of this
Part that is inconsistent with any of the terms
of the arrangement has effect to contravene
the arrangement ; and this Part shall be so
read and construed as to provide for the
execution of the arrangement. R.S., c. 322,
s. 3.

**4.** In the case of any foreign state with
respect to which the application to the United
Kingdom of the Act of the Parliament of the
United Kingdom, passed in the year 1870,
and entitled An Act for amending the Law
relating to the Extradition of Criminals, and
any Act or Acts amending the same, is made
subject to any limitation, condition, qualifi
cation or exception, the Governor in Council
shall make the application of this Part, subject
to such limitation, condition, qualification or
exception. R.S., c. 322, s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may, at any
time, revoke or alter, subject to the restrictions
of this Part, any order made by him in council
under this Part, and all the provisions of this
Part with respect to the original order, so far
as applicable, apply mutatis mutandis to the
new order. R.S., c. 322, s. 5.

**6.** This Part, so far as its application in the
case of any foreign state depends on or is
affected by any order in council, made under
this Part or referred to therein, shall apply,
its application shall be affected from and
after the time specified in the order, or, if no
time is specified, after the date of the
publication of the order in the Canada Gazette.
R.S., c. 322, s. 6.

**7.** Any order of Her Majesty in Council,
referred to in this Part, and any order of the
Governor in Council made under this Part,
and any extradition arrangement shall be, as
soon as possible, published in the Canada
Gazette and laid before both Houses of
Parliament. R.S., c. 322, s. 7.

**8.** The publication in the Canada Gazette
* / an extradition i- , arrangement or an order i in
council is evidence of the arrangement or
order, and of the terms thereof, and of the
application of this Part, pursuant and subject
thereto ; and the court or judge shall take
judicial notice, without proof, of such arrange
ment or order, and the validity of the order
and the application of this Part, pursuant
and subject thereto, shall not be questioned.
R.S., c. 322, s. 8.
Judges and Commissioners

**9.** (1) All judges of the superior courts and
of the county courts of a province, and all
commissioners who are from time to time
appointed for the purpose in a province by
the Governor in Council, under the Great
Seal, by virtue of this Part, are authorized to
act judicially in extradition matters under
this Part, within the province ; and every such
person has, for the purposes of this Part, all
the powers and jurisdiction of any judge or
magistrate of the province.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed
to confer on any judge any jurisdiction in
habeas corpus matters. R.S., c. 322, s. 9.
Extradition from Canada

**10.** (1) Whenever this Part applies, a judge
may issue his warrant for the apprehension of
a fugitive on a foreign warrant of arrest, or
an information or complaint laid before him,
which the fugitive is accused, or of which he
is alleged to have been convicted, had been
committed in Canada.
(2) The judge shall forthwith send a report
of the fact of the issue of the warrant, together
with certified copies of the evidence and
foreign warrant, information or complaint, to
the Minister of Justice. R.S., c. 322, s. 10.
1 1. A warrant issued under this Part may
be executed in any part of Canada in the
same manner as if it had been originally
issued, or subsequently endorsed, by a justice
of the peace having jurisdiction in the place
where it is executed. R.S., c. 322, s. 11.

**12.** Every fugitive criminal of a foreign
state, to which this Part applies, is liable to
be apprehended, committed and surrendered
in the manner provided in this Part, whether
the crime or conviction, in respect of which
the surrender is sought, was committed or
took place before or after the date of the
arrangement, or before or after the time when
this Part is made to apply to such state, and
whether there is or is not any criminal
jurisdiction in any court of Her Majesty s
Realms and Territories over the fugitive in
respect of the crime. R.S., c. 322, s. 12.

**13.** The fugitive shall be brought before a
judge, who shall, subject to this Part, hear the
case, in the same manner, as nearly as may
be, as if the fugitive was brought before a
justice of the peace, charged with an indictable
offence committed in Canada. U.S., c. 322,
s. 13.

**14.** The judge shall receive upon oath, or
affirmation, if affirmation is allowed by law,
the evidence of any witness tendered to show
the truth of the charge or the fact of the
conviction. R.S., c. 322, s. 14.
J5. The judge shall receive, in like manner,
evidence tendered to show that the crime
of which the fugitive is accused or alleged to
been convicted is an offence of a political
or is, for any other reason, not an
crime, or that the proceedings are
taken with a view to prosecute or punish
him for an offence of a political character.
R.S., c. 322, s. 15.

**16.** Depositions or statements taken in a
foreign state on oath, or on affirmation, where
affirmation is allowed by the law of the state,
and copies of such depositions or statements
and foreign certificates of, or judicial docu
ments stating the fact of conviction, may, if
duly authenticated, be received in evidence
in proceedings under this Part. R.S., c. 322,
s. 16.

**17.** The papers referred to in section 16
shall be deemed duly authenticated if authen
ticated in the manner provided, for the time
being, by law, or if
  * (_a_) the warrant purports to be signed by, or
the certificate purports to be certified by,
or the depositions or statements, or the
copies thereof, purport to be certified to be
the originals or true copies, by a judge,
magistrate or officer of the foreign state ;
and
(6) the papers are authenticated by the
oath or affirmation of some witness, or by
being sealed with the official seal of the
Minister of Justice, or some other minister
of the foreign state, or of a colony,
dependency or constituent part of the
foreign state, of which seal the judge shall
take judicial notice without proof. R.S., c.
322, s. 17.

**18.** (1) The judge shall issue his warrant
for the committal of the fugitive to the
nearest convenient prison, there to remain
until surrendered to the foreign state, or
discharged according to law,
  * (_a_) in the case of a fugitive alleged to have
been convicted of an extradition crime, if
such evidence is produced as would, accord
ing to the law of Canada, subject to this
Part, prove that he was so convicted, and
(6) in the case of a fugitive accused of an
extradition crime, if such evidence is
produced as would, according to the law of
Canada, subject to this Part, justify his
committal for trial, if the crime had been
committed in Canada.
(2) If SU ch evidence is not produced, the
shall order him to be discharged. R.S.,
c. 322, s. 18.

**19.** Where the judge commits a fugitive to
prison, he shall, on such committal,
  * (_a_) inform him that he will not be surren
dered until after the expiration of fifteen
days, and that he has a right to apply for
a writ of habeas corpus, and
  * (_b_) transmit to the Minister of Justice a
certificate of the committal, with a copy of
all the evidence taken before him not
already so transmitted, and such report
upon the case as he thinks fit. R.S., c. 322,
s. 19.

**20.** (1) A requisition for the surrender of a
fugitive criminal of a foreign state who is, or
is suspected to be, in Canada, may be made
to the Minister of Justice
  * (_a_) by any person recognized by him as a
consular officer of that state resident at
Ottawa, or
  * (_b_) by any minister of that state com
municating with the Minister of Justice
through the diplomatic representative of
Her Majesty in that state.
(2) If neither of these modes is convenient,
then the requisition shall be made in such
other mode as is settled by arrangement. R.S.,
c. 322, s. 20.
2 1. No fugitive is liable to surrender under
this Part if it appears
  * (_a_) that the offence in respect of which
proceedings are taken under this Act is one
of a political character, or
  * (_b_) that such proceedings are being taken
with a view to prosecute or punish him for
an offence of a political character. U.S., c.
322, s. 21.

**22.** Where the Minister of Justice at any
time determines
  * (_a_) that the offence in respect of which
proceedings are being taken under this Part
is one of a political character,
(6) that the proceedings are, in fact, being
taken with a view to try or punish the
fugitive for an offence of a political
character, or
  * (_c_) that the foreign state does not intend to
make a requisition for surrender,
he may refuse to make an order for surrender,
and may, by order under his hand and seal,
cancel any order made by him, or any warrant
issued by a judge under this Part, and order
the fugitive to be discharged out of custody
on any committal made under this Part ; and
the fugitive shall be discharged accordingly.
R.S., c. 322, s. 22.

**23.** A fugitive shall not be surrendered
until after the expiration of fifteen days from
the date of his committal for surrender, or, if
a writ of habeas corpus is issued, until after
the decision of the court remanding him. R.S.,
c. 322, s. 23.

**24.** A fugitive who has been accused of an
offence within Canadian jurisdiction, not
being the offence for which his surrender is
asked, or who is undergoing sentence under a
conviction in Canada, shall not be surrendered
until after he has been discharged, whether
by acquittal or by expiration of his sentence,
or otherwise. R.S., c. 322, s. 24.

**25.** Subject to this Part, the Minister of
Justice, upon the requisition of the foreign
state, may, under his hand and seal, order a
fugitive who has been committed for surrender
to be surrendered to the person or persons
who are, in his opinion, duly authorized to
receive him in the name and on behalf of the
foreign state, and he shall be so surrendered
accordingly. R.S., c. 322, s. 25.

**26.** Any person to whom an order of the
Minister of Justice made under section 25 is
directed may deliver, and the person thereto
authorized by such order may receive, hold in
custody, and convey the fugitive within the
jurisdiction of the foreign state, and if he
escapes out of any custody to which he is
delivered, on or in pursuance of such order,
he may be retaken in the same manner as any
person accused or convicted of any crime
against the laws of Canada may be retaken
on an escape. R.S., c. 322, s. 26.

**27.** Everything found in the possession of
the fugitive at the time of his arrest that may
be material as evidence in making proof of
the crime, may be delivered up with the
fugitive on his surrender, subject to all rights
of third persons with regard thereto. R.S., c.
322, s. 27.

**28.** Where a fugitive is not surrendered
and conveyed out of Canada within two
months after his committal for surrender, or,
if a writ of habeas corpus is issued, within two
months after the decision of the court on such
writ, over and above, in either case, the time
required to convey him from the prison to
which he has been committed, by the readiest
way out of Canada, any one or more of the
judges of the superior courts of the province
in which such person is confined, having
power to grant a writ of habeas corpus, may,
upon application made to him or them by or
on behalf of the fugitive, and on proof that
reasonable notice of the intention to make
such application has been given to the
Minister of Justice, order the fugitive to be
discharged out of custody, unless sufficient
cause is shown against such discharge. R.S., c.
322, s. 28.

**29.** The Forms set forth in Schedule II, or
forms as near thereto as circumstances admit
of, may be used in the matters to which such
Forms refer, and, when used, shall be deemed
valid. R.S., c. 322, s. 29.
Extradition from a Foreign State

**30.** (1) A requisition for the surrender of a
fugitive criminal from Canada, who is or is
suspected to be in any foreign state with
which there is an extradition arrangement,
may be made by the Minister of Justice
  * (_a_) to a consular officer of that state
resident at Ottawa, or
(6) to the Minister of Justice or any other
minister of that state, through the diplomat
ic representative of Her Majesty in that
state.
(2) If neither of these modes is convenient,
the requisition shall be made in such other
mode as is settled by arrangement. R.S., c.
s. 30.

**31.** (1) Whenever, for the purposes of this
Act, it becomes necessary or expedient to
secure evidence by depositions taken in
Canada to be used in a foreign state, any
justice of the peace, or any person having
authority to issue a warrant for the apprehen
sion of persons accused of offences and to
commit such persons for trial, may take
depositions in the absence of a person accused
of an extradition crime in like manner as he
might take the depositions if the accused
person were present and charged before him
with such extradition crime.
(2) Such justice of the peace or person
having authority as aforesaid may, by
subpoena or order, command the attendance
at the time and place therein mentioned, of
any person or witness for the purpose of being
examined as to any extradition crime charged
under this Act, and may require the production
of any writings or other documents relating
to the charge that are in the possession or
power of such person or witness.
(3) Upon the service upon a person or
witness of a subpoena or order referred to in
subsection (2), and upon payment or tender
of the like conduct money as is properly
payable upon attendance at the trial of an
indictable offence in a superior court, the
subpoena or order may be enforced in like
manner as a subpoena or order issued by such
superior court. R.S., c. 322, s. 31.

**32.** Any person accused or convicted of an
extradition crime, who is surrendered by a
foreign state, may, under the warrant for his
surrender issued in such foreign state, be
brought into Canada and delivered to the
proper authorities, to be dealt with according
to law. R.S., c. 322, s. 32.

**33.** Where any person accused or convicted
* &amp;lt; 111
* an extradition crime is surrendered by a
foreign state, in pursuance of any extradition
arrangement, he is not, until after he has
been restored or has had an opportunity of
in Canada for any other offence committed
prior to his surrender, for which he should
not, under the arrangement, be prosecuted.
R.S., c. 322, s. 33.
List of Crimes

**34.** The list of crimes in Schedule I shall
^ e construed according to the law existing in
Canada at the date of the alleged crime,
whether by common law or by statute made
before or after the 28th day of April 1877, and
as including only such crimes, of the descrip
tions comprised in the list, as are, under that
law, indictable offences. R.S., c. 322, s. 34.

## PART II

## EXTRADITION IRRESPECTIVE OF

## TREATY

**35.** (1) This Part does not come into force,
with respect to fugitive offenders from any
foreign state, until it has been declared by
proclamation of the Governor General to be
in force and effect as regards such foreign
state, from and after a day to be named in
the proclamation.
(2) Where by proclamation the Governor
General declares this Part to be no longer in
operation as regards any foreign state, the
provisions thereof shall cease to have any
force or effect with respect to fugitive
offenders from such state from and after a
day to be named in such proclamation. R.S.,
c. 322, s. 35.

**36.** This Part applies to any crime, men
tioned in Schedule III, that is committed
after the coming into force of this Part as
regards any foreign state to which this Part
has by proclamation been declared to apply.
R.S., c. 322, s. 36.

**37.** (1) Where no extradition arrangement
exists between Her Majesty and a foreign
state, or where an extradition arrangement,
extending to Canada, exists between Her
Majesty and a foreign state, but does not
include the crimes mentioned in Schedule III,
it is nevertheless lawful for the Minister of
Justice to issue his warrant for the surrender
to such foreign state of any fugitive offender
from that foreign state charged with or
of any of the crimes mentioned in
III.
(2) The arrest, committal, detention, sur
render and conveyance out of Canada of a
fugitive offender referred to in subsection (1)
is governed by Part I, and all the provisions
of that Part apply to all steps and proceedings
in relation to such arrest, committal, deten
tion, surrender and conveyance out of Canada
in the same manner and to the same extent
as they would apply if the said crimes were
included and specified in an extradition
arrangement between Her Majesty and the
foreign state, extending to Canada. R.S., c.
322, s. 37.

**38.** All expenses connected with the arrest,
committal, detention, surrender and convey
ance out of Canada of any fugitive offender
under this Part shall be borne by the foreign
state applying for the surrender of such
fugitive offender. R.S., c. 322, s. 38.

**39.** The list of crimes in Schedule III shall
be construed according to the law existing in
Canada at the date of the commission of the
alleged crime, whether by common law or by
statute, and as including only such crimes, of
the description comprised in the list, as are,
under that law, indictable offences. R.S., c.
322, s. 39.

**40.** No warrant shall issue under this Part
for the extradition of any person to any state
or country in which by the law in force in
such state or country such person may be
tried after such extradition for any other
offence than that for which he has been
extradited, unless an assurance has first been
given by the executive authority of the state
or country that the person whose extradition
has been claimed will not be tried for any
other offence than that in respect of which
the extradition has been claimed. R.S., c. 322,
s. 40.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE I

## LIST OF CRIMES

**1.** Murder, or attempt or conspiracy to murder;

**2.** Manslaughter;

**3.** Counterfeiting or altering money, and uttering counterfeit
or altered money;

**4.** Forgery, counterfeiting or altering, or uttering what is
forged, counterfeited or altered ;

**5.** Larceny or theft;

**6.** Embezzlement;

**7.** Obtaining money or goods, or valuable securities, by false
pretences ;

**8.** Crimes against bankruptcy or insolvency law ;

**9.** Fraud by a bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee, or by a
director or member or officer of any company, which fraud is
made criminal by any Act for the time being in force ;

**10.** Rape;

**11.** Abduction;

**12.** Child stealing;

**13.** Kidnapping;

**14.** False imprisonment ;

**15.** Burglary, housebreaking or shop-breaking ;

**16.** Arson;

**17.** Robbery;

**18.** Threats, by letter or otherwise, with intent to extort;

**19.** Perjury or subornation of perjury ;

**20.** Piracy by municipal law or law of nations, committed on
board of or against a vessel of a foreign state;

**21.** Criminal scuttling or destroying a vessel of a foreign
state at sea, whether on the high seas or on the Great Lakes of
North America, or attempting or conspiring to do so ;

**22.** Assault on board a vessel of a foreign state at sea, whether
on the high seas or on the Great Lakes of North America, with
intent to destroy life or to do grievous bodily harm;

**23.** Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons
on board a vessel of a foreign state at sea, whether on the high
seas or on the Great Lakes of North America, against the
authority of the master ;

**24.** Any offence under
(6) Part VI of the Criminal Code, except sections 240 and
254 to 281 ;
  * (_c_) Part VII of the Criminal Code, except subsection 299(2)
and sections 323 and 331 ;
  * (_d_) Part IX of the Criminal Code, except sections 394,
396, 397 and 402 to 405;
  * (_e_) Part X of the Criminal Code, except section 412;
that is not included in any foregoing portion of this Schedule ;

**25.** Any offence that is, in the case of the principal offender,
included in any foregoing portion of this Schedule, and for
which the fugitive criminal, though not the principal, is liable
to be tried or punished as if he were the principal.
R.S., c. 322, First Sch.; 1953-54, c. 51, s. 751.

## SCHEDULE II

## FORM ONE
FORM OF WARRANT OF APPREHENSION
To wit:
To all and each of the constables of
Whereas it has been shown to the undersigned, a judge under
the Extradition Act, that late of is ac
cused (or convicted) of the crime of ... within the
jurisdiction of
This is therefore to command you, in Her Majesty s name,
forthwith to apprehend the said and to bring him
before me, or some other judge under the said Act, to be further
dealt with according to law; for which this shall be your
warrant.
Given under my hand and seal at this .
day of AD.
FORM Two
FORM OF WARRANT OF COMMITTAL
To wit:
To one of the constables of and to
the keeper of the at
Be it remembered that on this ... day of ...
in the year at is brought before me
a judge under the Extradition Act,
who has been apprehended under the said Act, to be dealt with
according to law ; and forasmuch as I have determined that he
should be surrendered in pursuance of the said Act, on the
ground of his being accused (or convicted) of the crime of
within the jurisdiction of
This is therefore to command you the said constable, in Her
Majesty s name, forthwith to convey and deliver the said
into the custody of the keeper of the
at and you, the said keeper to receive the said
into your custody, and him there safely to keep
until he is thence delivered pursuant to the provisions of the
said Act, for which this shall be your warrant.
Given under my hand and seal at ... this
day of .... ...A.D.
FORM THREE
FORM OF ORDER OF MINISTER OF JUSTICE FOR SURRENDER
To the keeper of the at and to
Whereas late of . accused (or con
victed) of the crime of within the jurisdiction of
. .was delivered into the custody of you, the keeper
of the at ...by warrant dated
pursuant to the Extradition Act.
Now I do hereby, in pursuance of the said Act, order you the
said keeper, to deliver the said ....into the custody of
the said ... ; and I command you, the said
to receive the said ... into your custody, and to con
vey him within the jurisdiction of the said and
there place him in the custody of any person or persons (or of
) appointed by the said .... to receive him ;
for which this shall be your warrant.
Given under the hand and seal of the undersigned Minister
of Justice of Canada, this.... day of....
A.D
R.S., c. 322, Second Sch.

## SCHEDULE III

**1.** Murder, or attempt or conspiracy to murder;

**2.** Manslaughter;

**3.** Counterfeiting or altering money and uttering counterfeit
or altered money;

**4.** Forgery, counterfeiting or altering, or uttering what is
forged, counterfeited or altered;

**5.** Larceny or theft;

**6.** Embezzlement;

**7.** Obtaining money or goods or valuable securities by false
pretences;

**8.** Rape;

**9.** Abduction; indecent assault;

**10.** Child stealing;

**11.** Kidnapping;

**12.** Burglary, housebreaking or shop-breaking;

**13.** Arson;

**14.** Robbery;

**15.** Fraud committed by a bailee, banker, agent, factor,
trustee or member or public officer of any company or munici
pal corporation, made criminal by any law for the time being
in force;

**16.** Any malicious act done with intent to endanger persons
in a railway train;

**17.** Piracy by municipal law or law of nations, committed on
board of or against a vessel of a foreign state;

**18.** Criminal scuttling or destroying a vessel of a foreign
at sea, whether on the high seas or on the Great Lakes of
North America, or attempting or conspiring to do so;

**19.** Assault on board a vessel of a foreign state at sea, whether
on the high seas or on the Great Lakes of North America, with
intent to destroy life or to do grievous bodily harm ;

**20.** Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons,
on board a vessel of a foreign state at sea, whether on the high
seas or on the Great Lakes of North America, against the
authority of the master;

**21.** Administering drugs or using instruments with intent to
procure the miscarriage of a woman ;

**22.** Any offence that is, in the case of the principal offender,
included in any foregoing portion of this Schedule, and for
which the fugitive criminal, though not the principal, is liable
to be tried or punished as if he were the principal.
R.S., c. 322, Third Sch.
