Inspection Act. R.S., c. 94, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"broken seal" means a seal that has been
rendered ineffective ;
"contractor" means any company, commis
sion, corporation, municipality or person
undertaking to furnish electrical energy to
any purchaser ;
"Department" means the Department of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs ;
"electricity inspection" means any work done
under the authority of this Act ;
"inspector" means any officer appointed
under the authority of this Act ;
"meter" means an electric meter, and includes
every kind of machine, apparatus or
instrument used for making electrical meas
urements, and any device utilized for the
purpose of obtaining the basis of a charge
for electricity ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs ;
"purchaser" means any person to whom
electrical energy is sold. R.S., c. 94, s. 2;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 104.

## UNIT OF SUPPLY
3, (j) The commercial unit of electrical
supply is the kilowatt-hour or such units
upon the units of electrical measure
by the Electrical and Photometric
Units Act as are determined by the National
Council of Canada.
(2) The certificate or statement of accuracy
of the Department of any electricity measur
ing instrument shall take precedence over any
other certificate. R.S., c. 94, s. 3.

## REGULATIONS

**4.** The Governor in Council may make
such rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with this Act, as are necessary for giving
effect to its provisions and for declaring its
true intent and meaning in all cases of doubt,
and for specifying the variations in the
conditions of supply within which the readings
of a verified meter shall be legal. R.S., c. 94,
s. 4.

## DIRECTOR AND OFFICERS

**5.** (i) There may be appointed for the
purpose of this Act a director, together with
such assistants as may be deemed necessary
by the head of the Department ; such director
shall have the direction and general supervi
sion of all the work necessary to give effect to
the provisions of this Act and any regulations
established thereunder in connection with the
measurement of electricity for sale throughout
Canada.
(2) No person shall be employed or appoint
ed under this section permanently until he
has passed a qualifying technical examination
which shall be held under the direction of the
Public Service Commission.
(3) N o inspector shall be a seller of
electricity or electricity meters, or be employed
by any person supplying electricity or meters.
R.S., c. 94,s.5.

## STANDARDS

**6.** All instruments and measuring appa
ratus required for electricity inspection shall
be supplied by the Department, shall be
designated as inspection standards and shall
bear the imprint or nameplate of the
Department ; and such standards shall con
form to primary standards, which shall be
determined by the National Research Council
Council Act. R.S., c. 94, s. 6.

## REGISTRATION

**7.** (1) Before commencing the supply of
electricity for sale in any municipality or
rural district the contractor shall obtain from
the Department or from an officer appointed
for the purpose, a certificate of registration
for that municipality or rural district, or other
area as may be deemed necessary by the
Department, and shall pay the fees prescribed
by the Governor in Council ; application for
this certificate of registration shall be made
on a form supplied by the Department.
(2) Such certificate shall expire on the 31st
day of March in each year and application
for renewal shall be made on or before that
date from year to year. R.S., c. 94, s. 7.

## METERS

**8.** (1) Where a contractor or purchaser
intends to use a meter for the purpose of
establishing the charge for electrical service,
that meter shall, before being put into service,
be verified by an inspector in accordance with
this Act and any regulations not inconsistent
therewith that may be established thereunder,
unless permission has been obtained from the
Minister for temporary use prior to verifica
tion.
(2) Access to the working parts or adjust
ments of meters presented for verification
must be capable of being effectively prevented
by a seal to be affixed by the inspector at the
time of verification, with the exception of
such meters as may be approved by the
director for use unsealed. R.S., c. 94, s. 8.

**9.** No meter shall be admitted to verifica
tion in Canada until the type of meter to
which it belongs has received the approval of
the director. R.S., c. 94, s. 9.

**10.** Within six years, or such other period
as the Governor in Council in any case or
class of cases may prescribe, from each
verification and sealing or stamping, every
meter shall be presented by the owner for
reverification and resealing or restamping, or
for the cancellation of the seal or stamp, by
have been scrapped, lost or destroyed.
c. 94, s. 10.

**11.** A certificate, covering the verification
every meter, shall be issued by the inspector
in accordance with regulations made by the
Minister. R.S., c. 94, s. 11.

**12.** (1) No person, except the owner or an
inspector for a valid reason, shall break the
seal of any verified meter, and no person
shall break the seal of any meter the
correctness of which is in dispute, except as
provided by this Act or the regulations.
(2) No meter on which the seal is broken
shall be put into service or continued in use,
except as may be provided by this Act or the
regulations. R.S., c. 94, s, 12.

**13.** In every case the owner shall keep
every verified meter that is in use in good
repair and shall be responsible for the due
inspection and testing thereof, and except as
herein otherwise provided, shall pay the fee
lawfully chargeable for such inspection, and
shall be liable for all penalties incurred with
respect to such meter ; he shall keep a record
of all meters in his possession, giving their
location and the date of all departmental
tests made thereon, which record shall be
open to the inspector during business hours
and from which the inspector may make such
extracts as he may require. R.S., c. 94, s. 13.

**14.** The contractor shall notify the district
inspector without delay of any change of
location of any meter from one inspection
district to another and also of the number,
mark or other description of any meter that
may be sold, scrapped, destroyed, burnt or
lost. R.S., c. 94, s. 14.

**15.** The contractor shall provide free of
charge electricity, wiring and such reasonable
facilities for testing his meters as may be
prescribed by regulations made under the
authority of this Act at such places as are
agreed upon between the contractor and the
Department. R.S., c. 94, s. 15.

**16.** Any inspector may at all reasonable
enter any premises where electricity is
generated, distributed, or used, for the
of performing any duty imposed
upon him by this Act. R.S., c. 94, s. 16.

## DISPUTED METER TESTS

**17.** If at any time the contractor or
purchaser is dissatisfied with the condition or
registration of any of his meters, the inspector
shall, on the request of either party, and upon
deposit of the required fee, proceed as
prescribed by regulations made by the
Minister ; tests made under such circumstances
shall be designated "disputed meter tests".
R.S., c. 94, s. 17.

**18.** The inspector shall issue to the request
ing party a certificate showing the result of
the test, and shall give a duplicate thereof to
the opposite party ; the cost of such certificate
shall be borne by the party against whom the
decision is given ; if either the contractor or
the purchaser is dissatisfied with the finding
of any inspector, the inspector shall, if so
requested in writing by such dissatisfied party,
refer the matter to the director, and the
decision of the director thereon is final and
conclusive. R.S., c. 94, s. 18.

**19.** (1) Where on a disputed meter test the
meter is found to register with an error greater
than that permitted by the regulations, such
error shall be held to have existed for a period
of three months, or from the date on which
the meter was last sealed, if the sealing took
place within three calendar months previous
to the test, and the contractor or the purchaser,
as the case may be, is entitled to the amount
represented by the full error of the meter.
(2) Where the meter is not self-contained,
the inspector shall examine the records
connected therewith for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the correct multiplier
has been used in computing the account, and
if he finds an incorrect multiplier in use then
the error resulting therefrom shall be deemed
to have existed during the whole time that
such multiplier has been in use. R.S.,c. 94, s. 19.

## VOLTAGE AND FREQUENCY TEST

**20.** The contractor or purchaser may at
any time, on payment of a fee to be fixed by
the Governor in Council, call on an inspector
to test the voltage or frequency of the electric
supply and to furnish a certificate thereof.
R.S., c. 94, s. 20.

## FEES AND STAMPS
2 1. The fees for the inspection and testing
of meters, lamps and other electrical instru
ments and appliances, shall be determined
from time to time by the Governor in Council,
and such fees shall be regulated so that they
will, as nearly as possible, meet the cost of
carrying this Act into effect ; and all fees
received under this Act shall be accounted for
and paid to the Receiver General and in such
manner as he directs, and shall form part of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 94,
s. 21 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**22.** All fees shall be due and payable at
the time of verification and shall be paid
before the certificate is issued. R.S., c. 94, s.

**22.**

**23.** An indication of the payment of the
fee in respect of a certificate shall be made in
the certificate or in such other manner as the
Governor in Council may prescribe. U.S., c.
94, s. 23.

## ACCOUNTS

**24.** Separate accounts shall be kept of all
expenditures incurred and of all fees and
penalties collected and received under the
authority of this Act. R.S., c. 94, s. 24.

## PENALTIES
2 5 . Every contractor who refuses or neglects
to obtain or renew the certificate of registration
required by this Act is liable to a fine of ten
dollars for each day during which such refusal
or neglect continues. U.S., c. 94, s. 25.

**26.** Every person who, except under the
or counterfeited, or assists in the
or counterfeiting of any stamp or
or seal issued for the stamping, marking
sealing of any meter under this Act, or any
required by this Act, is guilty of
forgery and shall be punished accordingly;
and every one who steals any such stamp or
seal is guilty of theft ; and every person who
knowingly sells, utters or disposes of, lets,
uses, lends or exposes for sale, any meter with
such forged stamp or mark thereon is for
every such offence liable to a fine not
exceeding two hundred dollars and not less
than twenty dollars; and all meters having
on them such forged or counterfeited stamps
or marks shall be forfeited to Her Majesty,
and shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of as the Minister may direct. R.S., c. 94, s.

**26.**

**27.** (1) Every person who repairs or alters,
or causes to be repaired or altered, or tampers
with or does any other act in relation to any
verified meter, or the wires leading to such
meter so as to cause the meter to register
unjustly, or who prevents or refuses lawful
access to any meter in his possession or
control, or obstructs or hinders any examina
tion or testing authorized by this Act, is liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
and not less than fifty dollars, and is also
liable to pay the expense of and fees for
removing and testing the meter and the
expense of purchasing and installing a new
meter.
(2) The payment of a fine under subsection
(1) does not exempt the person paying it from
any punishment to which he may otherwise
be liable upon indictment or other proceeding,
or deprive any person of the right to recover
damages against such person for any loss or
injury sustained in consequence of such act or
default. R.S., c. 94, s. 27.

**28.** Every person who
  * (_a_) puts into service or causes to be put into
service any meter for which a certificate is
required, before procuring such certificate,
(6) refuses or neglects to present any of his
meters for reverification and resealing or
restamping or for the cancellation of the
seal or stamp in accordance with the
requirements of this Act,
  * (_c_) not being an inspector, seals or stamps
and issues a certificate as to the accuracy
or condition of any meter after it has been
fixed for use, or
  * (_d_) breaks or causes to be broken the seal of
any meter contrary to this Act or the
regulations,
is liable to a fine of twenty-five dollars for
each meter with respect to which any of the
provisions of this section have been violated,
and in the case of paragraphs (a) and (b) the
meter is liable to confiscation. R.S., c. 94, s.

**28.**

**29.** Every contractor who fails to keep the
records required by this Act, or who refuses to
allow an inspector to examine such records
and to take such extracts therefrom as he may
deem necessary, is liable to a fine of not less
than ten dollars and not more than fifty
dollars. R.S., c. 94, s. 29.

**30.** Every person who violates any of the
provisions of this Act, or of any regulation,
or refuses or neglects to perform any duty
imposed by this Act or a regulation, for which
violation no penalty is specifically herein
provided, is liable to a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars and not more than one
hundred dollars, and in the case of an
inspector to dismissal from office. R.S., c. 94,
s. 30.

**31.** (1) All penalties imposed under the
authority of this Act or of any regulation are
recoverable on summary conviction with costs,
  * (_a_) before any justice of the peace, police,
district or stipendiary magistrate for the
district, county or place in which the offence
was committed, if the fine does not exceed
twenty-five dollars ; or
  * (_b_) before any two justices of the peace,
police, district or stipendiary magistrate or
any magistrate having the power or authori
ty of two or more justices of the peace, if
the fine exceeds twenty-five dollars.
(2) Where the offender is a corporation,
any process or other paper required by the
provisions of the Criminal Code relating to
summary convictions to be served upon the
sions may in such case be served upon the
mayor, or chief officer of such corporation, or
upon the clerk or secretary thereof.
(3) Every such prosecution shall be institut
ed by the inspector, as acting in pursuance of
this Act, who shall account for the amount of
the fine to the Minister. R.S., c. 94, s. 31.
