of Energy, Mines and Resources Act.

**2.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Energy, Mines and Resources over which
the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources
appointed by commission under the Great
Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources holds office during pleasure and
has the management and direction of the
Department of Energy, Mines and Resources.
1966-67, c. 25, s. 27.

**3.** The Governor in Council may appoint
an officer called the Deputy Minister of
Energy, Mines and Resources to be the deputy
head of the Department of Energy, Mines
and Resources and to hold office during
pleasure. 1966-67, c. 25, s. 28(1).

**4.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources
extend to and include all matters over which
the Parliament of Canada has jurisdiction,
not by law assigned to any other department,
branch or agency of the Government of
Canada, relating to
  * (_a_) energy, mines and minerals, water and
other resources ;
  * (_b_) explosives; and
  * (_c_) technical surveys within the meaning of
the Resources and Technical Surveys Act.
1966-67, c. 25, s. 29.

**5.** The Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources shall, on or before the 31st day of
January next following the end of each fiscal
year or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on
any of the first five days next thereafter that
Parliament is sitting, submit to Parliament a
report showing the operations of the Depart
ment of Energy, Mines and Resources for
that fiscal year. 1966-67, c. 25, s. 30.
