established federal-provincial programs

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Established
Programs (Interim Arrangements) Act. 1964-65,
c. 54, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"appropriate Minister" means, in relation to
a program referred to in this Act, the
Minister of the Crown in right of Canada
charged from time to time with the
administration of that program ;
"authorizing instrument"
  * (_a_) in relation to a standing program other
than the program set out in paragraph 4 of
Schedule I, means the Act of the Parliament
of Canada mentioned in Column I of
Schedule I that provides for participation
by the Government of Canada in the
program and includes any agreement
entered into thereunder, and
(6) in relation to the program set out in
paragraph 4 of Schedule I, means any order
in council and rules thereunder replacing
Order in Council P.C. 1964-19/559, dated
the 23rd day of April 1964, and the health
grants rules made thereunder, and includes
the Orders in Council referred to in
subparagraphs 4(6) and (c) of Schedule I ;
"basic tax" has the same meaning as in section
37 of the Income Tax Act;
"interim period" means the period of time in
respect of which a supplementary agreement
is in effect with respect to a standing
program ;
year" means, in relation to a
standing program,
  * (_a_) that period of twelve months that
commences with the first day of the interim
period of the standing program, and
(6) a period of twelve months immediately
following the end of the period mentioned
in paragraph (a) or following immediately
after the end of a preceding period and
ending within or concurrently with the
interim period of the standing program ;
"province" does not include the Yukon
Territory or the Northwest Territories ;
"special program" means a program referred
to in section 11 ;
"standing program" means a program referred
to in subsection 3(1) ;
"supplementary agreement" means an agree
ment authorized by section 3 ;
"tax abatement" means the percentage that
is applied to the basic tax to determine the
amount that may be deducted under section
37 of the Income Tax Act for a taxation
year by an individual ;
"taxation year" means a taxation year within
the meaning of the Income Tax Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act the
population of a province shall be computed
in accordance with subsection 8(4) of the
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act.
1964-65, c. 54, s. 2.

## STANDING PROGRAMS

**3.** (i) Where a province that is participat
ing in a program enumerated in Schedule I
desires to have that program become a
program that is to be wholly administered
and financed by the province, the appropriate
Minister and the Minister of Finance, with
the approval of the Governor in Council and
notwithstanding any provision of the author
izing instrument or any regulation made
for the purpose of enabling the
to assume responsibility for that
(2) A supplementary agreement shall con
tain an undertaking by the province that the
province shall continue to operate the program
in accordance with the authorizing instrument
except as to the manner in which the
Government of Canada will contribute there
after in respect of the program and the
manner in which accounts are to be submitted.
(3) Subject to section 18, no supplementary
agreement in respect of a standing program
may be entered into after the 31st day of
October 1965, but a supplementary agreement
entered into on or before that day may
provide that the agreement shall have effect
  * (_a_) for the period set out opposite that
standing program in Column II of Schedule
I; or
(6) for a period commencing concurrently
with the second period of twelve months
within the period set out opposite that
standing program in Column II of Schedule
I and ending concurrently with the period
so set out.
(4) Where a supplementary agreement is
entered into with a province in respect of a
standing program, the Government of Canada
ceases to be under any obligation, except as
provided in this Act, to make any contributions
or payments to or for that program in respect
of any year in the interim period applicable
to that program.
(5) For the purposes of a supplementary
agreement,
  * (_a_) the programs enumerated in paragraph
2 of Schedule I constitute one program
(hereinafter referred to as the "special
welfare program");
(6) the projects enumerated in paragraph 3
of Schedule I constitute one program
(hereinafter referred to as the "technical
training program"); and
  * (_c_) the programs "enumerated in paragraph
4 of Schedule I constitute one program"
(hereinafter referred to as the "health grants
program");
and shall be deal: with as such in a
supplementary agreement. 196-4-65. c. 54. s. 3:
1966-67. c. S9. s. 24.

**4.** Those projects included within any of
the programs comprised in the general health
grants referred to in subparagraph 4(a) of
Schedule I that are. in the opinion of the
appropriate Minister after consultation with
provincial authorities, research and demon-
stration projects shall, for the purposes of this
Act. be presumed :o be carried out as separate
projects not coming within the purview of his
Act. 1964-66. c. 54.1 4.

**5.** (1) Subject to section 19. all that portion
of the unemployment assistance program
referred to in subparagraph 2(d) of Schedule
I that does not constitute the welfare portion
of hat program shall, for the purposes of this
Act, be presumed to be carried out as a
separate program not coming within the
purview of this Act.
(2) The welfare portion of the unemploy
ment assistance program shall, for the purposes
of this section, be deemed to be that portion
of the cost of unemployment assistance paid
in a province in an operating year that equals
the aggregate of
  * (_a_) the amount of the yield, as determined
by the Minister of Finance in respect of the
calendar year that is referable to that
operating year, of the additional tax
abatement applicable in respect of that
program in that province pursuant to
subparagraph 6(2}(6)(ri). and
(6) the amount of any tax equalization
payment made under section 7 to the
province for that program in respect of the
calendar year mentioned in paragraph (a).
1964-6o. c. 54. s. 5 : 1966-67. c. 45. s. 19.
TAA ABATEMENT A&amp;gt;T) EQUALIZATIO.V

**6.** (1) Where a supplementary agreement
has been entered into with a province in
program shall be increased with
to the income of an individual earned
that taxation year in that province by
to the percentage figure of the tax
the number of units that apply to
the program as specified in subsection (2).
(2) The number of units that apply to a
standing program are as follows :
  * (_a_) fourteen units, in the case of the hospital
insurance program ;
(6) subject to section 19, four units in the
case of the special welfare program, being
  * (_i_) two units for the programs referred to
in subparagraphs 2(a) to (c) of Schedule
I, and
  * (_ii_) two units for the program referred to
in subparagraph 2(d) of Schedule I ;
  * (_c_) one unit, in the case of the technical
training program ; and
  * (_d_) one unit, in the case of the health grants
program. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 6; 1966-67, c. 45,
s. 19.

**7.** Where a province has entered into a
supplementary agreement with respect to a
standing program, the Minister of Finance
may cause to be paid to that province a tax
equalization payment computed in accordance
with section 8 in respect of a calendar year
for which an additional tax abatement has
been provided under this Act in respect of
that province. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The tax equalization payment that
may be paid, for a standing program, to a
province in respect of a calendar year is the
amount, as determined by the Minister of
Finance, obtained by multiplying the unit
equalization value applicable to the province
by the number of units that apply to that
program under subsection 6(2).
(2) The unit equalization value mentioned
in subsection (1) that is applicable to a
province in respect of a standing program is
the amount, if any, that, when added to the
amount, as determined by the Minister of
Finance, representing one per cent of the
amount obtained from the basic
in the province in respect of a calendar
coinciding with or ending in an operating
of the standing program, will cause
  * (_a_) the per capita amount derived by
dividing
  * (_i_) the sum so obtained
by
  * (_ii_) the population of the province in that
calendar year
to equal
(6) the per capita amount derived by
dividing
  * (_i_) the amount, as determined by the
Minister of Finance, representing one per
cent of the aggregate amount obtained
from the basic tax in the two provinces in
which the per capita amount obtained
from the basic tax in respect of that
calendar year is greatest
by
  * (_ii_) the total population in that calendar
year of the two provinces mentioned in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph. 1964-
65, c. 54, s. 8.

**9.** (1) Where the aggregate, as determined
by the Minister of Finance, of
  * (_a_) the total amount of the additional tax
abatement applicable in respect of a
standing program in a province, as provided
for under section 6, for a calendar year, and
(6) the amount of the tax equalization
payment to that province in respect of the
standing program referred to in paragraph
(a), as provided for under section 7, for that
calendar year,
is less than the amount, as determined by the
appropriate Minister, that would have been
paid by the Government of Canada under
the authorizing instrument to the province in
respect of the operating year of that program
that is referable to the calendar year for which
the additional tax abatement was provided,
the Minister of Finance may cause to be paid
to the province an amount equal to the
amount of the difference.
(2) Where the aggregate, as determined by
the Minister of Finance, of
  * (_a_) the total amount of the additional tax
abatement applicable in respect of a
standing program in a province, as provided
for under section 6, for a calendar year, and
(6) the amount of the tax equalization
payment to that province in respect of the
standing program referred to in paragraph
(a), as provided for under section 7, for that
calendar year,
is greater than the amount, as determined by
the appropriate Minister, that would have
been paid by the Government of Canada
under the authorizing instrument to the
province in respect of the operating year of
that program that is referable to the calendar
year for which the additional tax abatement
was provided, the amount otherwise payable
pursuant to section 7 shall be reduced by the
amount of the difference ; and if the reduction
is insufficient to reduce the difference to zero,
an amount equal to the remaining amount of
the difference shall be recovered out of any
moneys payable to the province under the
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act, or
any Act of the Parliament of Canada
substituted therefor, or may otherwise be
recovered as a debt due to Canada by the
province. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 9.

**10.** (1) A supplementary agreement
entered into pursuant to this Act in respect of
either the technical training program or the
health grants program, if it is the only
supplementary agreement under this Act
entered into by a province, shall provide that,
in lieu of an additional tax abatement under
section 6, the province shall receive, upon
such terms and conditions, including the time
of payment, as may be provided in the
agreement, a payment, in respect of an
operating year of the program, in an amount
not exceeding the amount, as determined by
the appropriate Minister, that would have
been contributed by the Government of
Canada under the authorizing instrument in
respect of the operating year.
(2) Where pursuant to subsection (1) a
province has agreed to receive an annual
payment in lieu of an additional tax
abatement in respect of either the technical
training program or the health grants program,
as the case may be, sections 6 to 9 do not
in respect of that program. 1964-65, c.
s. 10.

## SPECIAL PROGRAMS

**11.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
Council, the appropriate Minister and the
Minister of Finance, on behalf of the
Government of Canada, may together enter
into an agreement with a province that has
been participating in a program enumerated
in Schedule II to enable the program to be
continued more fully under the administrative
and financial control of the province.
(2) An agreement under subsection (1) may
provide for the continuation of the program
specified in the agreement or it may permit
the province to substitute therefor a provincial
program that in the opinion of the appropriate
Minister is a program that would substantially
accord with the objectives of the special
program that it replaces.
(3) An agreement under subsection (1) shall
extend to each fiscal year
  * (_a_) in the case of the hospital construction
program referred to in paragraph 3 of
Schedule II, within the period commencing
on the 1st day of April 1965 and ending on
the 31st day of March 1968;
(6) in the case of the Roads to Resources
program referred to in paragraph 5 of
Schedule II, within the period commencing
on the 1st day of April 1965 and ending, in
respect of a province, on the 31st day of
March in the year specified in the agreement
between the Government of Canada and
the province ; and
  * (_c_) in the case of any other program
enumerated in Schedule II, within the
period commencing on the 1st day of April
1965 and ending on the 31st day of March

**1967.**
(4) Where an agreement has been entered
into under subsection (1) with a province, the
Minister of Finance may, in respect of the
special program mentioned in the agreement
or a provincial program substituted therefor
and upon the terms and conditions set out in
the agreement, cause to be paid to the
province out of any moneys appropriated by
Parliament for the purposes of the special
appropriate Minister, be applicable to
province. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 11.

**12.** A special program, or a provincial
program substituted for a special program,
mentioned in an agreement under section 11,
shall be audited and accounts submitted with
respect thereto in such manner as may be set
out in the agreement, and advances may be
made to a province in respect thereof at the
times and in the manner agreed upon ; but
nothing in this Act shall be construed to bind
the Government of Canada to pay in respect
of any fiscal year any moneys to a province
in respect of a special program or any
provincial program substituted therefor unless
Parliament has appropriated moneys for the
purposes of the special program in respect of
the fiscal year. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 12.

**13.** The authority conferred by this Act to
make a payment to a province in respect of
the program referred to in paragraph 5 of
Schedule II is limited
  * (_a_) to such amount authorized under the
agreement entered into with the province
for the establishing of the program therein
as is unexpended as of the 1st day of April
1965 ; and
(6) by the amounts of the annual payments
set out in the agreement referred to in
paragraph (a). 1964-65, c. 54, s. 13.

## PAYMENTS FOR STANDING PROGRAMS

**14.** The amounts authorized under sections
7, 9 and 10 to be paid by the Minister of
Finance shall be paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund, by advances or otherwise, at
such times and in such manner as may be
prescribed by the regulations. 1964-65, c. 54,
s. 14.

## MISCELLANEOUS

**15.** Where, by virtue of section 6, the tax
abatement applicable for a taxation year is
increased with respect to a province, the
Governor in Council shall, by publication in
the Canada Gazette and in such other manner
as is deemed expedient, cause notice to be
given of the tax abatement so applicable.
1964-65, c. 54, s. 15.

**16.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to restrict the powers of the Auditor General
of Canada under Part VII of the Financial
Administration Act. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 17.

**17.** For the purposes of paragraph 95(4)(o)
of the Financial Administration Act, an
additional tax abatement provided for under
section 6 of this Act shall be deemed, in
relation to any payment made by a province
under the standing program to which the
additional tax abatement is applicable, to be
a contribution by Canada toward that
payment. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 18.

**18.** (1) This section applies only to a
province, hereinafter called a "prescribed
province", that before the 23rd day of March
1967, entered into a supplementary agreement
in relation to the health grants program.
(2) In respect of the health grants program
and in respect of a prescribed province only
  * (_a_) subsection 3(3) shall be read as though
the date therein mentioned were the 30th
day of September 1967, and
(6) the period set out in Column II of
Schedule I, opposite paragraph 4 thereof
shall be read as though the dates therein
mentioned were as follows :
1 April 1965 to 31 March 1970.
1966-67, c. 89, s. 24.

**19.** (1) This section applies only to a
province, hereinafter called a "prescribed
province" that has, before the 15th day of
July 1966, entered into a supplementary
agreement in relation to the special welfare
program.
(2) In respect of the special welfare program
and in respect of a prescribed province only,
  * (_a_) section 5 shall be deemed not to apply,
(6) paragraph 6(2)(fe) shall be deemed to
read "four units in the case of the special
welfare program", and
  * (_c_) paragraph 2 of Schedule I shall be
deemed, for the purposes of sections 6 to 9,
to contain as subparagraph (e) thereof a
reference to "assistance and welfare services
under the Canada Assistance Plan",
any period before the 1st day of April
1970 to which an agreement under Part I of
the Canada Assistance Plan with a prescribed
province extends.
(3) Notwithstanding any provision of Part
I of the Canada Assistance Plan, an agreement
under that Part with a prescribed province
shall provide that Canada is under no
obligation to make any contribution or
payment to the province by reason of the
provisions of that Part or the agreement
thereunder in respect of any period before the
1st day of April 1970 except as provided by
this Act and the provisions of subsection (2)
of this section. 1966-67, c. 45, s. 19.

## REGULATIONS

**20.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting payment to a province of
advances to be made pursuant to this Act,
the adjustment of other payments by reason
of such advances, and the recovery of
overpayments ;
  * (_fr_) respecting the time and manner of
making any payment under this Act to a
province ;
  * (_c_) respecting the determination of any
matter that under this Act is to be
determined by the appropriate Minister or
the Minister of Finance ;
  * (_d_) prescribing the calendar year that is
referable to a particular operating year of
a standing program, or the operating year
of a standing program that is referable to a
particular calendar year, and providing
rules for the relating of accounting periods ;
and
  * (_e_) respecting such matters as may be
required to be prescribed for the purposes
of this Act. 1964-65, c. 54, s. 20.
[See schedule on the following page.]
1 January
1965
to
31 December
1970
1 April
1965
to
31 March
1970
1 April
1965
to
31 March
1967
1 April
1965
to
31 March
1967

## SCHEDULE II

## SPECIAL PROGRAMS

**1.** Agricultural Lime Assistance program, being that program
referred to in Order in Council P.C. 1958-6/336 of March 4, 1958.

**2.** Forestry programs of a substantially similar nature to the
shared-cost programs carried out under agreements authorized
by the following Orders in Council, namely:
P.C. 1964-17/435 of March 26, 1964
(Composite agreement, all provinces)
P.C. 1964-12/367 of March 12, 1964
(Aerial spraying agreement. New Brunswick)
P.C. 1964-14/926 of June 25, 1964
(Forest improvement agreement, Nova Scotia).

**3.** Hospital -Construction program, being that program re
ferred to in Order in Council P.C. 1964-19/559 of April 23, 1964.

**4.** Camp Grounds and Picnic Areas program, being that pro
gram referred to in Vote No. 10 of the Department of Northern
Affairs and National Resources and set out in the Schedule to
the Appropriation Act No. 5, 1903.

**5.** Roads to Resources program, being that program author
ized by the following Orders in Council, namely:
(B.C.) P.C. 1958-1460 of October 23 1958
(Alta.) P.C. 1959-1473 of November 13, 1959
(Man.) P.C. 1959-1474 of November 13, 1959
(Ont.) P.C. 1959-1475 of November 13, 1959
(N.S.) P.C. 1959-1476 of November 13, 1959
(P.E.I.) P.C. 1959-1551 of December 7, 1959
(Nfld.) P.C. 1959-1552 of December 7, 1959
(N.B.) P.C. 1959-1577 of December 10, 1959
(Sask.) P.C. 1959-1626 of December 22, 1959
(Que.) P.C. 1960-1320 of September 28, 1960.
1964-65, c. 54, Sch. II.
