Inspection Act. R.S., c. 118, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
container" means any type of receptacle,
package, wrapper or confining band, used
in packing or marketing fish ;
"establishment" means any place where fish
are processed for export or stored for export ;
fish" means any fish, including shellfish and
crustaceans, and marine animals, and any
parts, products or by-products thereof;
inspection certificate" means a certificate of
inspection issued under this Act ;
inspector" means a person designated as an
inspector pursuant to section 17 ;
marine plant" includes Irish moss, kelp, and
other salt water plants, and the products
and by-products thereof ;
Minister" means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry ;
processing" includes cleaning, filleting, icing,
packing , canning , freezing , smoking, salting ,
cooking, pickling, drying or preparing fish
for market in any other manner. R.S., c.
118, s. 2; 1967-68, c. 30, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c. 28,
ss. 99, 105.

## PARTI

## FISH AND FISH CONTAINERS

**3.** Th e Governor in Council may for the
purpose of regulating the export or import of
fish and containers make regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing grades, quality and stand
ards of fish ;
(6) defining, for the purposes of section 10,
the expressions "tainted", "decomposed"
and "unwholesome";
  * (_c_) respecting the processing, storing, grad
ing, packaging, marking, transporting and
inspection of fish ;
  * (_d_) respecting the quality and specifications
for containers of fish and the marking and
inspection of such containers ;
  * (_e_) requiring the registration of establish
ments and the licensing of persons engaged
as principals or agents in the export or
import of fish or containers ;
(/) prescribing the requirements for the
equipment and sanitary operation of estab
lishments, of premises operated by an
importer for the purpose of importing fish,
and of any boats, vehicles or other equip
ment used in connection with an establish
ment or in connection with fishing or the
import or export of fish ;
  * (_g_) prescribing fees for registration of estab
lishments, issue of licences and grading and
inspection services ;
  * (_h_) prohibiting the sale or offering for sale
or holding in possession for sale of any fish
or containers under any grade name or
standard prescribed by the regulations
under this Part unless all the requirements
of this Part and the regulations thereunder
with respect thereto have been complied
with, or under any name calculated to
mislead or deceive ;
  * (_i_) prescribing the manner in which samples
of any fish may be taken ; and
0) prohibiting or restricting any export or
import or any attempt or offer to export or
import any fish or containers unless all the
requirements of this Part and the regulations
thereunder with respect thereto have been
complied with. R.S., c. 118, s. 3; 1967-68, c.
30,s.2.

**4.** (1) An inspector may at any time
  * (_a_) enter any place or premises, or any
steamship, vessel or boat, or any railway
car, truck, carriage, car, aircraft or other
vehicle used for the carriage or storage of
fish and may open any container that he
has reason to believe contains fish,
(6) require to be produced for inspection or
for the purpose of obtaining copies thereof
or extracts therefrom any books, shipping
bills, bills of lading, or other documents or
papers, and
  * (_c_) take any samples for inspection.
(2) No person shall obstruct, impede or
refuse to admit an inspector or other person
acting in execution of this Part or any
regulation thereunder and no person shall aid
or assist any person in obstructing, impeding
or refusing to admit such inspector or other
person. R.S., c. 118, s. 4.

**5.** A person interested in a decision of an
inspector in respect of any inspection, grading,
marking or other matter under this Part or
the regulations thereunder may appeal to the
Minister in accordance with the procedure
prescribed by the Governor in Council. U.S.,
c. 118, s. 5.

**6.** For the purposes of this Part, inspectors
may administer oaths and take and receive
affidavits, declarations and affirmations. R.S.,
c. 118,s.6.

**7.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that an offence against
this Part or any regulation thereunder has
been committed, he may seize all fish and
containers by means of or in relation to which
he reasonably believes the offence was
committed.
(2) All fish and containers seized pursuant
during that period proceedings under
Part in respect of those fish and containers
are undertaken, in which case the fish and
containers may be further detained until such
proceedings are finally concluded.
(3) Where a person is convicted of an
offence against this Part or any regulation
thereunder, the fish and containers by means
of or in relation to which the offence was
committed, upon such conviction, in addition
to any penalty imposed, are forfeited to Her
Majesty and may be disposed of as the
Minister may direct. R.S., c. 118, s. 7.

**8.** (1) An inspector or constable may arrest
without a warrant any person found commit
ting an offence under this Part and shall
forthwith take any person so arrested before
a justice of the peace to be examined and
dealt with according to law.
(2) A person arrested pursuant to subsection
(1) shall not be detained in custody longer
than twenty-four hours without an order of a
justice of the peace. R.S., c. 118, s. 8.

**9.** (1) No person shall falsify or unlawfully
alter, destroy, erase or obliterate any declara
tion, inspection certificate or other document
made or issued under this Part or the
regulations thereunder or any marks placed
on any containers pursuant to this Part or the
regulations thereunder.
(2) Every person who violates subsection (1)
is guilty of an offence and is liable on
summary conviction to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars or to imprisonment for a term of not
less than two months and not exceeding six
months, or to both fine and imprisonment.
R.S., c. 118, s. 9.

**10.** (1) No person shall import, export, sell
for export or have in his possession for export
any fish intended for human consumption
that is tainted, decomposed or unwholesome.
one hundred dollars and not exceeding five
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a term
of not less than three months and not
exceeding six months, or to both fine and
imprisonment. R.S., c. 118, s. 10; 1967-68, c.
30,s.3.

**11.** Every person who violates any of the
provisions of this Part or the regulations
thereunder for which no penalty is elsewhere
provided in this Part is guilty of an offence
and is liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both. R.S., c. 118, s. 11.

## PART II

## MARINE PLANTS
J2. No person shall export any marine
plant in respect of which regulations have
been made under this Part, unless it is
inspected, graded, marked or designated, and
labelled in accordance with such regulations.
R.S., c. 118, s. 12.

**13.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing standards of grade, class or
quality for marine plants and the names or
marks that may be used to designate such
grade, class or quality ;
  * (_b_) providing for inspection, grading and
labelling of marine plants, the form, issue
and use of inspection certificates, and
prescribing inspection fees ; and
  * (_c_) generally for carrying any of the
purposes or provisions of this Part into
effect. R.S.,c. 118, s. 13.

**14.** (i) Every inspection certificate is evi
dence of the facts therein stated and is
receivable in evidence without proof of any
signature or the official character of any
person appearing to have signed it.
(2) No person shall attach or apply any
inspection certificate to any marine plant
unless the inspection certificate was issued
inspection certificate. R.S., c. 118, s. 14.

**15.** Every person who violates any provi
sion of this Part or any regulation thereunder
is guilty of an offence and is liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months, or to both.
R.S., c. 118, s. 15.

## PART III

## GENERAL

**16.** This Act applies to the shipment of
fish or marine plants from one province to
another as though the shipment from a
province were an export and the shipment
into a province were an import. R.S., c. 118,
s. 16.

**17.** The Minister or the Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs may desig
nate any person as an inspector for the
purposes of this Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**18.** Every offence against this Act or the
regulations shall, for the purposes of any
prosecution, be deemed to have been commit
ted and every cause of complaint under this
Act or any regulation shall be deemed to have
arisen in the place where the offence was
actually committed, or the place where it was
first discovered by an inspector or the place
where the defendant resides or is found. R.S.,
c. 118,s. 18.
