
## CHAPTER F- 13
An Act to regulate interprovincial and export
trade in freshwater fish and to establish
the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corpora
tion

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Freshwater
Fish Marketing Act. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the
Corporation ;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the
Board ;
"container" includes any type of receptacle,
package, wrapper or confining band, used
in packing or marketing fish ;
"Corporation" means the Freshwater Fish
Marketing Corporation established by this
Act;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"participating province" means a province or
territory in respect of which there is in force
an agreement entered into under section 25
with the government of that province or
territory ;
"President" means the President of the
Corporation. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 2.

## PARTI

## FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING

## CORPORATION
Corporation Established

**3.** (1) A corporation is hereby established
to be known as the Freshwater Fish Marketing
Corporation, consisting of a Board of Directors
composed of a Chairman, a President, one
director for each participating province and
four other directors, each of whom shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council to hold
office for a term not exceeding five years.
(2) A director of the Corporation for a
participating province shall be appointed on
the recommendation of the lieutenant gover
nor in council of the participating province.
(3) A person who has reached the age of
seventy years is not eligible to be appointed
a director of the Corporation and a director
of the Corporation ceases to hold office upon
reaching the age of seventy years.
(4) A. director of the Corporation on the
expiration of his term of office is, if not
disqualified by age, eligible for re-appoint
ment.
(5) A vacancy on the Board does not impair
the right of the remaining directors of the
Corporation to act, but where the vacancy
relates to the office of a director for a
participating province, it shall be filled as
soon as practicable in the manner provided in
this section.
(6) If any director of the Corporation other
than the Chairman or the President is absent
or unable to act, the Governor in Council
may appoint a temporary substitute director
upon such conditions as the Governor in
Council prescribes. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 3.

**4.** The Chairman shall preside at meetings
of the Board, but in the event of the absence
or incapacity of the Chairman, or if the office
of Chairman is vacant, the President shall
preside at such meetings. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The President is the chief executive
officer of the Corporation and the general
of the Board the direction and control of the
business of the Corporation with authority to
act in the conduct of the business of the
Corporation in all matters that are not by
this Act or by the by-laws of the Board
specifically reserved to be done by the Board.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the President, or if the office of President
is vacant, the Board shall authorize an officer
or director of the Corporation to act as the
President for the time being, but no person so
authorized by the Board has authority to act
as President for a period exceeding sixty days
without the approval of the Governor in
Council. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 5.

**5.** (j) The President shall be paid by the
Corporation a salary to be fixed by the
Governor in Council and the Chairman and
the other directors of the Corporation other
than the President shall be paid by the
Corporation such fees for attendances at
meetings of the Board or any committee
thereof as are fixed by by-law of the Board.
(2) Each director of the Corporation is
entitled to be paid by the Corporation such
travelling and living expenses incurred by
him in the performance of his duties as are
fixed by by-law of the Board. 1968-69, c. 21,
s. 6.
Purpose and Powers

**7.** The Corporation is established for the
purpose of marketing and trading in fish, fish
products and fish by-products in and out of
Canada and, in addition to the powers
conferred by any other Act and by other
provisions of this Act, has for that purpose
power to
  * (_a_) buy fish and dress, fillet, freeze, package
or otherwise prepare fish for market ;
(6) buy, manufacture or produce fish prod
ucts and fish by-products and package or
otherwise prepare fish products and fish by
products for market ;
  * (_c_) store, ship, insure, import, export, mar
ket, sell or otherwise dispose of fish, fish
products and fish by-products bought,
prepared, manufactured or produced by it;
  * (_d_) purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and
hold, pledge, mortgage, hypothecate, sell
or otherwise deal with any real or immovable
property ;
  * (_e_) establish branches or employ agents in
Canada or elsewhere ;
  * (_f_) invest any money in its possession or
control that in its opinion is not immediately
required for the purposes of its operations,
in securities of or guaranteed by the
Government of Canada and sell any
securities so acquired by it and re-invest the
proceeds thereof or any part thereof in like
manner ;
  * (_g_) borrow money from any bank upon the
credit of the Corporation ;
  * (_h_) make loans of working capital on a
seasonal basis to persons engaged in fishing
for commercial purposes in a participating
province ; and
  * (_i_) do all such other things as are necessary
or incidental to the exercise of any of its
powers or the carrying out of any of its
functions under this Act. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 7.

**8.** The Corporation may enter into and
carry out arrangements with any government
or person that the Corporation deems neces
sary or desirable in furtherance of the purpose
for which it is established, and may receive
and exercise any grants, rights, franchises,
privileges and concessions that may be granted
to or conferred upon it by any government or
person. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 8.
Organization and Staff

**9.** (1) The Corporation may employ such
officers and employees as it considers neces
sary for the proper conduct of its activities.
(2) The Board may by by-law prescribe the
duties of the officers and employees of the
Corporation and the terms and conditions of
their employment.
(3) The persons employed pursuant to
subsection (1) shall be paid by the Corporation

**10.** (1) The President and the officers and
of the Corporation shall be deemed
to be employed in the Public Service for the
purposes of the Public Service Superannuation
Act and the Corporation shall be deemed to
be a Public Service corporation for the
purposes of section 25 of that Act.
(2) For the purposes of the Government
Employees Compensation Act and any regula
tion made pursuant to section 7 of the
Aeronautics Act, the President and the officers
and employees of the Corporation shall be
deemed to be employed in the public service
of Canada. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 10.

**11.** Except as provided in section 10, a
director or an officer or employee of the
Corporation is not in that capacity part of
the public service. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 11.
General

**12.** The Board may make by-laws
  * (_a_) respecting the calling of meetings of the
Board ;
  * (_b_) respecting the conduct of business at
meetings of the Board and the establishment
of committees thereof, the delegation of
duties to such committees and the fixing of
quorums for meetings of the Board and
committees thereof ;
  * (_c_) subject to the approval of the Treasury
Board, fixing the fees to be paid to the
Chairman and the other directors of the
Corporation, other than the President, for
attendances at meetings of the Board or
any committee thereof, and the travelling
and living expenses to be paid to the
directors of the Corporation ;
  * (_d_) respecting the duties and conduct of the
directors of the Corporation ; and
  * (_e_) generally for the conduct and manage
ment of the affairs of the Corporation.
1968-69, c. 21, s. 12.

**13.** The head office of the Corporation
shall be at the city of Winnipeg or in the
immediate vicinity thereof, in the Province
of Manitoba, but meetings of the Board may
be held at such other places in Canada as the
Board may determine. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Corporation is for all purposes
this Act an agent of Her Majesty, and its
under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(3) Property acquired by the Corporation
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Corporation
were not an agent of Her Majesty. 1968-69, c.
21, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Corporation shall conduct its
operations on a self-sustaining financial basis
without appropriations therefor by Parlia
ment.
(2) The Corporation is a proprietary corpo
ration within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Financial Administration Act
and shall be deemed, for the purposes of the
Income Tax Act, to be a corporation specified
in Schedule D to the Financial Administration
Act.
(3) The Corporation may make grants in
lieu of taxes to any municipality in Canada
not exceeding the taxes that might be levied
by the municipality in respect of any lands
of the Corporation if the Corporation were
not an agent of Her Majesty.
(4) The Corporation shall be deemed, for
the P ur P ses of the Crown Corporations
(Provincial Taxes and Fees) Act, to be listed in
the schedule to that Act.
(5) The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
a PP lv to the Corporation or to the property
of the Corporation. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 15.
Financial

**16.** The Minister of Finance may out of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the
requisition of the Minister, make grants to
the Corporation not exceeding in the aggre-
one hundred thousand dollars to enable
Corporation to meet initial operating and
expenses. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 16.

**17.** (1) For the purpose of enabling the
Corporation to carry on its operations under
this Act, the Governor in Council may
authorize the Minister of Finance, on such
terms and conditions as may be agreed upon,
  * (_a_) to guarantee repayment of loans, and
interest thereon, made by any bank to the
Corporation; and
  * (_fc_) to make loans to the Corporation.
(2) The aggregate outstanding at any time
of
  * (_a_) the amounts borrowed by the Corpora
tion pursuant to paragraph 7(0), and
(6) the amounts loaned by the Minister of
Finance under this section,
shall not exceed five million dollars. 1968-69,
c. 21, s. 17.

## PART II

## ADVISORY COMMITTEE

**18.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
appoint an Advisory Committee consisting of
not more than fifteen members, one of whom
shall be designated by the Governor in
Council to be the Chairman of the Advisory
Committee, and at least one-third of whom
shall be persons, or representative of persons,
actively engaged in the freshwater fishing
industry as fishermen.
(2) Each of the members of the Advisory
Committee shall be appointed for a term not
exceeding five years, except that of those
members first appointed five shall be appoint
ed for a term of two years and five shall be
appointed for a term of four years.
(3) A member of the Advisory Committee
is, upon the expiration of his term of office,
eligible for re-appointment. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 18.

**19.** (1) The Advisory Committee shall
meet at such times as are fixed by the Board
and shall advise the Corporation on such
matters relating to trading and dealing in
fish, fish products or fish by-products as are
referred to it by the Board.
such remuneration and expenses as
are fixed by the Governor in Council. 1968-
69, c. 21, s. 19.

## PART III

## REGULATION OF INTERPROVINCIAL

## AND EXPORT TRADE

**20.** In this Part except section 31
"fish" means round, dressed or filleted fish of
any species enumerated in the schedule,
whether fresh or frozen and whether
packaged or unpackaged, that are fished
for commercial purposes in a participating
province, and includes parts of any such
fish;
"fisherman" means a person licensed pursuant
to the Fisheries Act or the regulations
thereunder to fish for commercial purposes
in a participating province, and includes
any person acting on behalf of and
representing any two or more persons so
licensed. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Except in accordance with the terms
an&amp;lt;^ conditions set forth in any licence that
may be issued by the Corporation in that
behalf, no person other than the Corporation
or an agent of the Corporation shall
  * (_a_) export fish from Canada ;
(6) send, convey or carry fish from a
participating province to another par
ticipating province or to any other province ;
  * (_c_) in a participating province, receive fish
for conveyance or carriage to a destination
outside the province ; or
  * (_d_) sell or buy, or agree to sell or buy fish
situated in a participating province for
delivery in another participating province
or any other province, or outside Canada.
(2) The Board may, for the purposes of this
section, make by-laws providing for the issue
  * (_a_) add to the schedule any species of fish
that are fished in a participating province
or delete from the schedule any species of
fish enumerated therein ; or
(6) exempt from the application of all or
any of the provisions of this Part, either
conditionally or unconditionally and either
in general terms or for a specified period,
any species of fish enumerated in the
schedule, any area or region in a participat
ing province or any transaction, person or
class of transactions or persons. 1968-69, c.
21,s.22.
Duties and Powers of Corporation

**23.** (1) Subject to section 21, the Corpora
tion has the exclusive right to market and
trade in fish in interprovincial and export
trade and shall exercise that right, either by
itself or by its agents, with the object of
  * (_a_) marketing fish in an orderly manner ;
  * (_b_) increasing returns to fishermen; and
  * (_c_) promoting international markets for,
and increasing interprovincial and export
trade in, fish.
(2) All fish lawfully fished by a fisherman
and offered by him for sale to the Corporation
for disposal in interprovincial or export trade
shall be bought by the Corporation from the
fisherman upon such terms and conditions
and for such price as may be agreed upon by
the Corporation and the fisherman subject to
any applicable scheme for payment estab
lished and operated by the Corporation
pursuant to section 24.
(3) The Corporation shall determine the
form in which fish bought by it pursuant to
this section shall be marketed and shall carry
out or cause to be carried out any processing
or preparation for market that it deems
necessary, and the Corporation shall market
the fish at such times and places and in such
manner as in its opinion will best achieve the
attainment of the objects mentioned in
(1). 1968-69, c. 21, s. 23.

**24.** The Corporation may develop, estab
lish and operate schemes for payment for fish
bought by it pursuant to this Part, that
provide for
  * (_a_) a system of initial and final prices or
payments ;
(6) the pooling of receipts for fish, including
the operation of pool accounts, either
generally or in relation to the area or region
where the fish were fished, or the species,
volume or quality of the fish sold to the
Corporation, or on such other basis as the
Corporation deems appropriate. 1968-69, c.
21,8.24.
Agreements Respecting Participation

**25.** (1) In this section "province to which
this section applies" means any of the
following provinces or territories, namely,
Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario or
the Northwest Territories.
(2) With the approval of the Governor in
Council, the Minister may, on behalf of the
Government of Canada, enter into an agree
ment with the government of any province to
which this section applies, providing for
  * (_a_) the sharing by the province with the
Government of Canada of initial operating
and establishment expenses of the Corpo
ration and of any losses incurred as a result
of the guarantee, under subsection 17(1), of
repayments of loans, and interest thereon,
.made by any bank to the Corporation ;
(6) the performance by the Corporation, on
behalf of the province, of functions relating
to intraprovincial trade in fish ;
  * (_c_) the undertaking by the province of
arrangements for the payment, to the owner
of any plant or equipment used in storing,
processing or otherwise preparing fish for
market, of compensation for any such plant
or equipment that will or may be rendered
redundant by reason of any operations
authorized to be carried out by the
Corporation under this Part ; and
  * (_d_) such other matters as may be agreed
upon by the Minister and the government
of the province. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 25.
Administration

**26.** The Governor in Council may desig
nate any qualified person as an inspector for
the purposes of this Part. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 26.

**27.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
time
  * (_a_) enter any place or premises that he
reasonably believes is being used to store,
pack, process or prepare fish for market or
shipment or any vehicle, trailer, vessel,
railway car or aircraft that he reasonably
believes is being used to ship or convey fish
for market ;
(6) open any container found therein or
examine anything found therein that he
reasonably believes contains any such fish,
and take samples thereof ; and
  * (_c_) require any person to produce for
inspection or for the purpose of obtaining
copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any
books, shipping bills, bills of lading, invoices
or other documents or papers concerning
any matter relevant to the administration
of this Part.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
certificate of his designation as an inspector
and on entering any place, premises or
conveyance referred to in subsection (1) shall,
if so required, produce the certificate to the
person in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of any
place, premises or conveyance referred to in
subsection (1) and every person fcund therein
shall give an inspector all reasonable assistance
in his power to enable the inspector to carry
out his duties and functions under this Part
and shall furnish him with such information
with respect to the administration of this Part
as he may reasonably require. 1968-69, c. 21,
s. 27.

**28.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
committed.
(2) Any fish seized and detained pursuant
subsection (1) shall not be detained after
  * (_a_) in the opinion of an inspector, the
provisions of this Part have been complied
with, or
(6) the expiration of ninety days from the
day of seizure,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation, in which
event the fish may be detained until the
proceedings are finally concluded.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of a
violation of any provision of this Part, any
fish by means of or in relation to which the
offence was committed is, upon the conviction,
in addition to any penalty imposed, forfeited
to Her Majesty if such forfeiture is directed
by the court.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the detention of fish seized
under this section and for preserving or
safeguarding the fish so detained ; and
  * (_b_) respecting the disposition of fish forfeit
ed under this section. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 28.

**29.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector in the carrying out of his duties
or functions under this Part.
(2) No person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector engaged in carrying
out his duties or functions under this Part.
1968-69, c. 21, s. 29.
Offences and Penalties

**30.** (1) Every person who, or whose
employee or agent, violates any provision of
this Part is guilty of
  * (_a_) an indictable offence and is liable to
imprisonment for two years, or
(6) an offence punishable on summary
conviction.
(2) In any prosecution for an offence under
this Part, it is sufficient proof of the offence
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence, unless the
accused establishes that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or consent
and that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent its commission.
(3) Any proceedings by way of summary
conviction in respect of an offence under this
Part may be instituted at any time within
one year after the time when the subject-
matter of the proceedings arose. 1968-69, c. 21,
s. 30.
3 1. In any prosecution for an offence under
this Part, evidence that a container was
marked in such a manner as to indicate or
give rise to a reasonable belief that the fish
contained therein were the product of or were
fished in a particular participating province
or a particular area or region therein is, in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, proof
that the fish contained therein were fished in
that province. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 31.

**32.** A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Part may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1968-69, c. 21, s. 32.

## PART IV

## GENERAL

**33.** Within three months after the end of
each financial year of the Corporation, the
Corporation shall prepare and submit to the
Minister and the lieutenant governor in
council of each participating province a report
of the activities of the Corporation for that
year, and the Minister shall cause such report
to be laid before Parliament within fifteen
days after the receipt thereof by him or, if
Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the
thereafter that Parlia
c. 21, s. 33.
Synonyms
trout, grey trout, salmon
trout, siscowet
lake whitefish
pike (in United States of
America), dore, walleye, yel
low walleye, yellow pike-
perch
pickerel (in United States of
America), jackfish, northern
pike
sauger pickerel, sand pickerel
tullibee, chub
cony
perch
lake sturgeon, rock sturgeon
sea trout, ilkalu or ekaluk,
Hudson Bay salmon
"mullet"
"mullet"
ling, maria, eelpout, lawyer
drum, sunfish, freshwater
drum, silver bass
buffalo
white carp
catfish
bullhead
bullhead
kamloops trout
