
## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Canadian fisheries waters" means all waters
in the fishing zones of Canada, all waters
in the territorial sea of Canada and all
internal waters of Canada ;
"close time" means a specified period during
which fish to which it applies, may not be
fished ;
"fish" includes shellfish, crustaceans and
marine animals ;
"fishery" includes the area, locality, place or
station in or on which a pound, seine, net,
weir or other fishing appliance is used, set,
placed or located, and the area, tract or
stretch of water in or from which fish may
be taken by the said pound, seine, net, weir
or other fishing appliance, and also the
pound, seine, net, weir, or other fishing
appliance used in connection therewith ;
"fishing" means fishing for or catching fish
by any method ;
"fishing vessel" means any vessel used,
outfitted or designed for the purpose of
catching, processing or transporting fish ;
"lawful excuse" means
  * (_a_) ability to prove that fish in possession
during the close time therefor at the place
of possession were legally caught, or
(6) the unintentional or incidental catching
of any fish that may not then be taken,
when legally fishing for other fish ;
means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry. R.S., c. 119, s. 2; 1960-61, c.
23, s. 1 ; 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12 ; 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 99.
APPLICATION

**3.** Nothing in this Act shall be taken to
authorize the granting of fishery leases
conferring an exclusive right to fish in
property belonging not to Canada but to a
province. R.S., c. 119, s. 3.

**4.** Nothing in this Act precludes the
granting by the Minister of written permission
to obtain fish and fish spawn for purposes of
stocking or artificial breeding or for scientific
purposes. R.S., c. 119, s. 4.

**5.** (1) There may be appointed in the
manner authorized by law, fishery officers,
whose powers and duties are as defined by
this Act and the regulations, and by instruc
tions from the Minister, and whose titles are
as specified in their appointments.
(2) The Governor in Council may authorize
any fishery officer to administer oaths and
take and receive affidavits, declarations and
affirmations for any of the purposes of any
Act or regulation administered by the Depart
ment of Fisheries and Forestry.
(3) The Minister may appoint fit and
proper persons to act as fishery guardians,
who hold office during the pleasure of the
Minister, and who have for the purposes of
this Act and the regulations the powers of a
police constable. R.S., c. 119, s. 5; 1960-61, c.
23, s. 2 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 99.

**6.** Every fishery officer and fishery guard
ian shall take and subscribe an oath in the
form following, that is to say :
I, A.B., a fishery officer (or guardian) in and for the
with instructions. So help God.
R.S.,c. 119,s.6.

## FISHERY LEASES AND LICENCES

**7.** The Minister may, in his absolute
discretion, wherever the exclusive right of
fishing does not already exist by law, issue or
authorize to be issued, leases and licences for
fisheries or fishing, wherever situated or
carried on ; but except as hereinafter provided,
leases or licences for any term exceeding nine
years shall be issued only under authority of
the Governor General in Council. R.S., c. 119,
s. 7.

**8.** Except where licence fees are prescribed
in this Act, the Governor in Council may
from time to time prescribe the fees that shall
be charged for fishery licences. R.S., c. 119,
s.8.

**9.** The Minister may cancel any lease or
licence issued under the authority of this Act,
if he has ascertained that the operations
under such licence were not conducted in
conformity with its provisions. R.S., c. 119,
s. 9.
SEAL FISHING

**10.** No one shall with boat or vessel or in
any other way during the time of fishing for
seals, knowingly or wilfully disturb, impede
or injure any sedentary seal fishery, or
prevent, or impede the shoals of seals from
coming into such fishery or knowingly or
wilfully frighten such shoals. R.S., c. 119,
s. 10(1).

**11.** Disputes between occupiers of seal
fisheries concerning limits and the mode of
fishing or setting nets shall be decided
summarily by any fishery officer or justice of
the peace, by whom arbitrators may be
appointed to assess damages ; and any
damages assessed or which arise out of a
repetition or continuance of the difficulty
ordered to be remedied, may be levied under
the warrant of any fishery officer or justice of
peace. R.S., c. 119, s. 10(2).

## SALMON FISHING

**12.** Salmon fry, parr and smolt shall not
at any time be fished for, caught or killed,
and no salmon or grilse of less weight than
three pounds shall be caught or killed,
otherwise than by angling with hook and line.
R.S., c. 119, s. 11.

**13.** The use of nets, weirs or other apparatus
of a like nature for the capture of salmon
shall be confined to tidal waters except where
otherwise provided by regulation and, where
not otherwise specified by law, any fishery
officer may determine the length and place
of each net or other apparatus used in any
Canadian fisheries waters. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12.

**14.** All stationary nets, or other stationary
appliances for the capture of salmon, shall be
placed at distances of not less than two
hundred and fifty yards apart, without
intermediate fishing nets or appliances of any
kind being set or used. R.S., c. 119, s. 13.
(NOTE : This section not applicable in Newfoundland.
See SOR/58-189.]

**15.** Any fishery officer may direct, either
in writing or orally on sight, that a greater
space than two hundred and fifty yards shall
be left between stationary salmon nets or
other stationary fishing apparatus. U.S.,
c. 119, s. 14.

**16.** In the Provinces of Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Quebec
no salmon shall be fished for, caught or killed
otherwise than by angling with hook and line,
within two hundred yards of the mouth of
any tributary of any creek or stream which
salmon frequent to spawn. R.S., c. 119, s. 15.
LOBSTER FISHERIES

**17.** The owner or manager of every lobster
factory or canning establishment shall by the
date fixed by the Minister for that purpose
deliver to the fishery officer for the district
a form provided by the Minister a
under oath showing,
  * (_a_) the number of fishermen employed, and
of the lobster traps used in connection with
his factory or canning establishment ;
(6) the number of persons employed in such
factory or canning establishment, distin
guishing the sexes ;
  * (_c_) the number of cases of lobsters, and the
weights thereof, packed during the legal
lobster fishing season last concluded and
ended ; and
  * (_d_) such other details and particulars as are
required by the Minister. R.S., c. 119, s. 16.

**18.** (1) No one shall maintain a pound or
enclosure in which lobsters, legally caught
during the open season, shall be retained for
sale during the close season at a place where
the pound or enclosure is located, or for
export therefrom, except under a licence from
the Minister, and no lobsters shall be taken
from any such pound or enclosure, and
disposed of during the close season at the
place where it is located, except under a
certificate from a fishery officer or fishery
guardian, setting forth the pound from which
the lobsters were taken and that they had
been legally caught during the open season.
(2) Each such pound or enclosure shall be
marked with the name of the licensee and the
number of his licence ; such marking shall be
in black on a white ground, and the letters
and figures shall be at least six inches in
height.
(3) The annual fee for such licence shall be
seventy-five dollars. R.S., c. 119, s. 17.
POSSESSION OF FISH

**19.** No one, without lawful excuse, the
proof whereof lies on him, shall fish for, buy,
sell or have in his possession any fish, or
portion of any fish, at a place where at that
time fishing for such fish is prohibited by law.
R.S., c. 119,s. 18.

## CONSTRUCTION OF FISHWAYS

**20.** (1) Every slide, dam or other obstruc-
tion across or in any stream where the Minister
determines it to be necessary for the public
that a fish-pass should exist, shall be
by the owner or occupier with a
durable and efficient f ishway, or canal around
the slide, dam or other obstruction, which
shall be maintained in a good and effective
condition by the owner or occupier, in such
place and of such form and capacity as will
in the opinion of the Minister satisfactorily
permit the free passage of fish through the
same ; where it is determined by the Minister
in any case that the provision of an efficient
f ishway or canal around the slide, dam or
other obstruction is not feasible, or that the
spawning areas above such slide, dam or other
obstruction are destroyed, the Minister may
require the owner or occupier of such slide,
dam or other obstruction to pay to him from
time to time such sum or sums of money as
he may require to construct, operate and
maintain such complete fish hatchery estab
lishment as will in his opinion meet the
requirements for maintaining the annual
return of migratory fish.
(2) The place, form and capacity of the
fishway or canal to be constructed must be
approved by the Minister before construction
thereof is begun ; and immediately after the
fishway is completed and in operation the
owner or occupier of any dam or obstruction
shall make such changes and adjustments at
his own cost as will in the opinion of the
Minister be necessary for its efficient operation
under actual working conditions, if such are
found to be needed.
(3) The owner or occupier of every fishway
or canal shall keep it open and unobstructed
and shall keep it supplied with such sufficient
quantity of water as the Minister considers
necessary to enable the fish frequenting the
waters in which such fishway or canal is
placed to pass through the same during such
times as are specified by any fishery officer ;
and, where leaks in a dam cause a fishway
therein to be inefficient, the Minister may
require the owner or occupier of such dam to
prevent such leaks therein.
(4) The Minister may authorize the pay-
ment of one . half of the ex pe ns e incurred by
owner or occupier in constructing and
any f ishway or canal ; and after
fishway or canal that has been duly
approved by the Minister has been built at
the cost of the owner or occupier of any slide,
dam or other obstruction, or after such owner
or occupier has paid one-half the cost thereof
and such fishway or canal thereafter proves
to be ineffective, except as provided in
subsection (2), the total cost of any change in
such fishway or canal or any new fishway or
canal required to enable the fish to pass by
such slide, dam or other obstruction, shall be
paid by Her Majesty.
(5) The Minister, in order to procure the
construction of any fishway or canal, pending
proceedings against any owner or occupier for
the penalty imposed by this Act, may make
and complete the same forthwith, and may
authorize any person to enter upon the
premises with the necessary workmen, means
and materials for such purpose and may
recover from the owner or occupier the whole
expense so incurred by action in the name of
Her Majesty.
(6) Where unused slides, dams, obstructions,
or anything detrimental to fish exist, and the
owner or occupier thereof does not after notice
given by the Minister remove the same, or if
the owner is not resident in Canada, or his
exact place of residence is unknown to the
Minister, the Minister may, without being
liable to damages, or in any way to indemnify
the said owner or occupier, cause such slide,
dam, obstruction, or thing detrimental to fish
life to be removed or destroyed and in cases
where notice has been given to the owner or
occupier, may recover from said owner or
occupier the expense of so removing or
destroying the same.
(7) The Minister may require the owner or
occupier of any slide, dam or other obstruction
to install and maintain such fish stops or
diverters, both above and below any dam or
obstruction as will in his opinion be adequate
to prevent the destruction of fish or to assist
in providing for their ascent.
(8) At every slide, dam or other obstruction,
the Minister determines it to be
necessary the owner or occupier thereof shall,
when required by the Minister, provide a
sufficient flow of water over the spillway or
crest, with connecting sluices into the river
below to permit the safe and unimpeded
descent of fish.
(9) The owner or occupier of any slide, dam
or other obstruction shall make such provision
as the Minister determines to be necessary for
the free passage of both ascending and
descending migratory fish, during the period
of construction thereof.
(10) The owner or occupier of any slide,
dam or other obstruction shall permit to
escape into the river bed below the said slide,
dam or other obstruction, such quantity of
water, at all times, as will, in the opinion of
the Minister, be sufficient for the safety of
fish and for the flooding of the spawning
grounds to such depth as will, in the opinion
of the Minister, be necessary for the safety of
the ova deposited thereon. U.S., c. 119, s. 20.

## GENERAL PROHIBITIONS
2 1. No one shall fish for, take, catch or kill
fish in any water, or along any beach, or
within any fishery described in any lease or
licence, or place, use, draw or set therein any
fishing gear or apparatus, except by permission
of the occupant under such lease or licence
for the time being, or shall disturb or injure
any such fishery. R.S., c. 119, s. 21.

**22.** Seines, nets or other fishing apparatus
shall not be set or used in such manner or in
such place as to obstruct the navigation of
boats and vessels and no boats or vessels shall
destroy or wantonly injure in any way seines,
nets or other fishing apparatus lawfully set.
R.S., c. 119, s. 22.

**23.** Every person using stakes, posts, buoys
or other materials placed for fishing purposes
in any water shall remove the same within
forty-eight hours after ceasing to use them,
and in all cases at the expiry of the fishing
season. R.S., c. 119, s. 23.

**24.** (1) One-third of the width of any river
or stream, and not less than two-thirds of the
width of the main channel at low tide, in
every tidal stream shall be always left open,
and no kind of net or other fishing apparatus,
logs, or any material of any kind shall be
used or placed therein.
(2) The use of weirs for catching eels
exclusively, and the use of dams for catching
eels, shall be prevented only in cases where,
and at times when they injure other fisheries
or, by completely barring any passage, they
deprive other weirs of a share in the run of
eels; and such place, time and circumstances
may be determined by any fishery officer.
(3) The Minister may authorize the placing
and maintaining of barriers, screens, or other
obstructions, in streams to prevent the escape
of fish held for fish breeding purposes, or any
other purpose that he deems in the public
interest, and no person shall injure any such
barrier, screen or other obstruction. R.S.,
c. 119,s.24.

**25.** No one shall injure or obstruct any
fishway or canal built, constructed or used to
enable fish to pass over or around any slide,
dam or other obstruction or do anything to
stop, impede or hinder fish from entering or
passing the same or to stop, impede or hinder
fish from surmounting any obstacle or leap,
nor shall any one fish in any manner within
twenty-five yards downstream from the lower
entrance to any fishway or canal, obstacle or
leap. R.S., c. 119, s. 25.

**26.** No one shall hunt or kill fish or marine
animals of any kind, other than porpoises,
whales, walruses, sea lions and hair seals, by
means of rockets, explosive materials, or
explosive projectiles or shells. R.S., c. 119,
s. 26.

**27.** No one shall erect, use or maintain in
any of the waters of Canada whether subject
to any exclusive right of fishery or not, any
net, weir, or other device that unduly obstructs
the passage of fish ; and the Minister or any
fishery officer may order the removal of or
remove any net, weir, or other device that, in
the opinion of the Minister or any fishery
officer, unduly obstructs the passage of fish.
R.S., c. 119,8.27.
28 - 0) In the Provinces of British
Columbia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and
Alberta, the Northwest Territories and the
Yukon Territory, every ditch, channel or
canal constructed or adapted for conducting
water from any lake, river or stream, for
irrigating, manufacturing, domestic or other
purposes, shall, if the Minister deems it
necessary in the public interest, be provided
at its entrance or intake with a fish guard or
a metal or wire grating, covering or netting,
so fixed as to prevent the passage of fish from
any lake, river or stream into such ditch,
channel or canal.
(2) The fish guards referred to in subsection
(1) shall have meshes or holes of such
dimensions as the Minister may prescribe,
and shall be built and maintained by the
owner or occupier of such ditch, channel or
canal, subject to the approval of the Minister
or of such officer as he may appoint to
examine it.
(3) The owner or occupier of such ditch,
channel or canal shall maintain such fish
guard in a good and efficient state of repair,
and shall not permit its removal except for
renewal or repair, and during the time such
renewal or repair is being effected the sluice
or gate at the intake or entrance shall be
closed, and the passage of fish into the ditch,
channel or canal prevented. R.S., c. 119, s. 28.

**29.** No one shall catch, fish for, take, buy,
sell, possess or export any fish for the purposes
of converting it into fish meal, manure, guano,
or fertilizer, or for the manufacture or
conversion of such fish into oil, fish meal or
manure or other fertilizing product, except
under authority of the Minister; but the
Minister may, by notice published in the
from the operation of this section or any
of this section, and may at any time by
notice similarly published, withdraw such
R.S., c. 119, s. 29.

**30.** The eggs or fry of fish on the spawning
grounds, shall not at any time be destroyed.
R.S., c. 119, s. 30.
3 1. No one shall leave any port or place in
Canada t o fish outside Canadian fisheries
waters for fish the catching of which is at such
time prohibited in the Canadian fisheries
waters opposite to or nearest the place where
such person proposes to fish, and no one shall
bring into Canada any fish caught outside
Canadian fisheries waters when fishing for
such fish is prohibited inside the Canadian
fisheries waters opposite or nearest to the
place where such fish was caught, or shall
bring into Canada any vessels, boats, nets,
fishing gear, implements or appliances used
in such fishing. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12.

**32.** No one shall use a purse seine in any
Canadian fisheries waters, except under
licence from the Minister for the taking of
salmon, pilchard, herring, smelts, mackerel
and pollock. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12.

## INJURY TO FISHING GROUNDS AND POLLUTION

## OP WATERS

**33.** (1) No one shall throw overboard
ballast, coal ashes, stones, or other prejudicial
or deleterious substances in any river, harbour
or roadstead, or in any water where fishing is
carried on, or leave or deposit or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon the shore,
beach or bank of any water or upon the beach
between high and low water mark, remains or
offal of fish, or of marine animals, or leave
decayed or decaying fish in any net or other
fishing apparatus ; such remains or offal may
be buried ashore, above high water mark.
(2) No person shall cause or knowingly
permit to pass into, or put or knowingly
permit to be put, lime, chemical substances or
drugs, poisonous matter, dead or decaying
fish, or remnants thereof, mill rubbish or
sawdust or any other deleterious substance or
thing, whether the same is of a like character
to the substances named in this section or not,
in any water frequented by fish, or that flows
into such water, nor on ice over either such
waters.
(3) No person engaging in logging, lumber
ing, land clearing or other operations, shall
put or knowingly permit to be put, any slash,
stumps or other debris into any water
frequented by fish or that flows into such
water, or on the ice over either such water, or
at a place from which it is likely to be carried
into either such water.
(4) The Governor in Council may by order
deem any substance to be a deleterious
substance for the purposes of subsection (2).
(5) Every person who violates any provision
of this section is guilty of an offence and is
liable upon summary conviction,
  * (_a_) for the first offence, to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars and not more
than one thousand dollars or to imprison
ment for a term of not less than one month
and not more than six months, or to both
such fine and imprisonment ; and
  * (_b_) for a second and each subsequent
offence, to a fine of not less than three
hundred dollars and not more than two
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term of not less than two months and not
more than twelve months, or to both such
fine and imprisonment. R.S., c. 119, s. 33;
1960-61, c. 23, s. 4.

## REGULATIONS

**34.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act and in particular, but
without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, may make regulations
  * (_a_) for the proper management and control
of the seacoast and inland fisheries ;
(6) respecting the conservation and protec
tion of fish ;
  * (_c_) respecting the catching, loading, land
ing, handling, transporting, possession and
disposal of fish ;
  * (_d_) respecting the operation of fishing
vessels ;
  * (_e_) respecting the use of fishing gear and
equipment ;
0) respecting the issue, suspension and
cancellation of licences and leases;
  * (_gr_) prescribing the terms and conditions
under which a licence or lease is to be
issued ;
  * (_h_) respecting the obstruction and pollution
of any waters frequented by fish ;
  * (_i_) respecting the conservation and protec
tion of spawning grounds ;
0) respecting the export of fish or any part
thereof from Canada ;
  * (_k_) respecting the taking or carrying of fish
or any part thereof from one province of
Canada to any other province;
(0 prescribing the powers and duties of
persons engaged or employed in the
administration or enforcement of this Act
and providing for the carrying out of those
duties and powers ; and
  * (_m_) authorizing a person engaged or
employed in the administration or enforce
ment of this Act to vary any close time or
fishing quota that has been fixed by the
regulations. 1960-61, c. 23, s. 5.

## POWERS OF FISHERY OFFICERS AND OTHER
JUSTICES

**35.** Any fishery officer or justice of the
peace may search, break open and search, or
grant a warrant to search, any house, vessel
or place where he has reason to believe that
any fish taken in violation of this Act, or of
any regulation or anything used in violation
thereof, is concealed. R.S., c. 119, s. 36.

**36.** Any fishery officer, fishery guardian
peace officer may arrest without warrant a
whom he, on reasonable and probable
believes to have committed an
against this Act or any regulation, or
he finds committing or preparing to
commit an offence against this Act or any
regulation. R.S., c. 119, s. 37.

**37.** Where any offence under this Act is
committed in, upon or near any waters
forming the boundary between different
counties or districts, or fishery districts, such
offence may be prosecuted before any justice
of the peace in either of such counties or
districts, or before any fishery officer for
either fishery district. R.S., c. 119, s. 38.

**38.** Every one who resists or wilfully
obstructs any fishery officer or fishery guard
ian in the execution of his duty, or any person
acting in aid of such officer or guardian, is
guilty of an offence punishable on indictment,
or on summary conviction, and liable if
convicted on indictment to a term not
exceeding two years imprisonment, and on
summary conviction to a term not exceeding
six months imprisonment with hard labour or
to a fine of one hundred dollars. R.S., c. 119,
s. 39.

**39.** In the discharge of his duties any
fishery officer, fishery guardian or other
person or persons accompanying him or
authorized to such effect by the fishery officer,
may enter upon and pass through or over
private property without being liable for
trespass. R.S., c. 119, s. 40.

**40.** Disputes between persons relative to
fishing limits or claims to fishery stations, or
relative to the position and use of nets and
other fishing apparatus, shall be settled by
the local fishery officer. R.S., c. 119, s. 41.

**41.**. Fishery officers may determine or
prescr ik e the distance between each and every
such apparatus and materials and
any damages that may result therefrom. R.S.,
119,8.42.

**42.** The Minister, or any fishery officer
duly authorized by the Minister, has power
to define the boundaries of tidal waters and
estuaries and to designate what is the mouth
of any river, stream or other water for the
purposes of this Act. R.S., c. 119, s. 43.

**43.** Gurry grounds may be designated or
defined by any fishery of ficer. R.S.,c. 119,s. 44.

## GENERAL

**44.** The Minister may authorize any river
or other water to be set apart for the natural
or artificial propagation of fish. R.S., c. 119,
s. 48.

**45.** Special licences and leases for any term
of years may be granted to any person who
wishes to plant or form oyster beds in any of
the bays, inlets, harbours, creeks or rivers, or
between any of the islands on the coast of
Canada ; and the holder of any such lease or
licence has the exclusive right to the oysters
produced or found on the beds within the
limits of such lease or licence. R.S., c. 119,
s. 49.

**46.** (1) The Governor in Council may,
upon such terms and conditions as are agreed
upon, authorize the government of any
province to grant leases of such areas of the
seacoast, bays, inlets, harbours, creeks, rivers
and estuaries of such province as the govern
ment of such province considers suitable for
the cultivation and production of oysters, and
any persons to whom such leases are granted
by such province, subject to the fishery
regulations of Canada, have the exclusive
right to the oysters produced or found on the
beds within the limits of their respective
leases.
(2) In the event of such areas, or any part
thereof, being in a public harbour, nothing in
harbour for every purpose other than the
and production of oysters. U.S.,
119,s.50.

**47.** (1) Every subject of Her Majesty may
use vacant public property, such as by law is
common and accessory to public rights of
fishery and navigation for the purpose of
landing, salting, curing and drying fish, and
may cut wood thereon for such purposes, and
no other person shall occupy the same station
unless it has been abandoned by the first
occupant for twelve consecutive months ; and
at the expiration of that period any new
occupier shall pay the value of the flakes and
stages and other property thereon, of which
he takes possession, or the buildings and
improvements may be removed by the original
owner.
(2) No property leased or licensed shall be
deemed vacant. R.S., c. 119, s. 51.
4g. The owner or manager of every fish
curing or canning establishment or fresh fish
business, and the captain or owner of every
fishing vessel, and the owner of every fishing
boat, fishing trap, weir or other fishing
instrument in Canada, shall, at the request of
the Minister or a fishery officer, furnish a
true return, covering the period specified by
the Minister or such fishery officer, containing
the whole or any one or more of the following
particulars :
  * (_a_) all fish caught ;
  * (_b_) all fish bought ;
  * (_c_) all fish packed or canned ;
  * (_d_) the value of the fish caught, bought,
packed or canned ;
  * (_e_) the number of fishermen employed and
their nationality ;
(J) the number of shore workers employed ;
  * (_g_) the number and value of the fishing
vessels and boats employed ;
  * (_h_) the quantity and value of fishing gear
used;
  * (_z_) the number and value of buildings and
fixtures used ; and
0) such other details and particulars as
may be required by the Minister or such
fishery officer. R.S., c. 119, s. 52.

## PROTECTION OF FISHERMEN

**49.** (1) No dory, flat or other boat whatever
shall set out from any vessel engaged in deep-
sea or bank fishing or be launched therefrom
for the purpose of fishing with hooks and
lines, trawls or other similar appliances, or
with intent that the same shall be used in so
fishing, or for the purpose of examining
trawls, set lines or other similar appliances
for fishing, unless there is placed in such boat,
to be retained therein during absence from
such vessel, a mariner s compass, nor unless
there is placed in such boat at least two quarts
of drinking water and two pounds of solid
food for each man of the crew of such boat.
(2) The owner of such vessel shall supply
the vessel at the commencement of its voyage
with as many serviceable mariner s compasses
as it carries boats, in addition to the vessel s
compass, and also with the necessary utensils
for holding water and with a serviceable fog
horn or trumpet.
(3) No collector or other customs officer
shall grant a clearance to such vessel or allow
it to go to sea unless the master thereof has a
certificate from a fishery officer or other
person authorized by the Minister to give
such certificates that the vessel is properly
equipped with a mariner s compass and
suitable utensils for holding water for each
boat carried by the vessel and with a
serviceable fog-horn or trumpet. R.S., c. 119,
s. 53.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**50.** Every owner or manager of a lobster
factory or canning establishment who neglects
by the date fixed by the Minister for that
purpose, to send to or furnish the fishery
officer for the district on the form prescribed
by the Minister a statement under oath,
showing
  * (_a_) the number of fishermen employed, and
of the lobster traps used in connection with
his factory or canning establishment ;
(6) the number of persons employed in such
factory or canning establishment, distin
guishing the sexes ;
  * (_c_) the number of cases of lobsters, and the
weights thereof, packed during the legal
lobster fishing season last concluded and
ended; and
  * (_d_) such other details and particulars as are
required by the Minister ;
is liable to a penalty of not less than one
hundred dollars and costs, and not more than
four hundred dollars and costs. R.S., c. 119, s.

**54.**
5 j. (i) Every person is guilty of an offence,
and shall incur therefor a penalty of not less
than one hundred dollars and not more than
two thousand dollars, recoverable with costs
upon summary conviction, who at any time,
except under licence from the Minister,
  * (_a_) with intent to fish or to cause any other
person to fish with a vessel that uses an
"otter" or other trawl of a similar nature
for catching fish in the sea, leaves or departs
from any port or place in Canada for the
purpose of such fishing ; or
(6) knowingly brings into Canada any fish
taken or caught in the sea beyond Canadian
fisheries waters with any vessel that uses an
"otter" or other trawl of a similar nature,
or any vessel that uses an "otter" or other
trawl of a similar nature for catching fish
in the sea beyond Canadian fisheries waters,
if the leaving or departure from Canada of
such vessel constituted an offence under
this section, and the fish or vessel so brought
in shall be confiscated to Her Majesty for
violation of this Act , in the manner provided
by section 58.
(2) No such vessel shall carry on fishing
operations from or to any Canadian port or
ports, unless such vessel is registered in
Canada as a British ship within the meaning
of the Canada Shipping Act and is owned by
a British subject resident in Canada or by a
body corporate incorporated under the laws
of Canada or of one of the provinces thereof,
and having its principal place of business in
Canada.
(3) No such vessel shall carry on fishing
from or to any Canadian port or
unless it restricts its fishing operations
to waters that are at least twelve miles distant
from the nearest shore on the Atlantic seacoast
of Canada; the proof that such fishing
operations are so restricted at all times lies
on the captain of the vessel ; but this
subsection does not apply to small draggers
operated by inshore fishermen if exempted
from the provisions of this subsection by
special permit which the Minister is hereby
authorized to issue for that purpose ; and in
the application of this subsection to the coasts
of Newfoundland the words "three miles"
shall be substituted for the words "twelve
miles".
(4) The Minister may also, by order, exempt
any class of dragger or trawler defined by the
regulations from the operation of subsection
(3) in respect of any area that is not less than
three miles from the nearest shore on the
Atlantic seacoast of Canada.
(5) The Minister may determine the number
of such vessels that shall be eligible to be
licensed.
(6) Regulations may be made under section
34 1
  * (_a_) prescribing the form of licence ;
  * (_b_) specifying the evidence to be submitted
with an application for a licence ;
  * (_c_) fixing the conditions under which a
licence shall be issued ;
  * (_d_) making any other provisions respecting
licences; and
  * (_e_) classifying, for the purposes of this
section, the vessels referred to in subsection
(1) according to length, tonnage or otherwise.
(7) The burden of proving absence of intent
or knowledge, when intent or knowledge is
necessary to constitute an offence under this
section, lies upon the person accused, and
intent or knowledge shall be presumed unless
negatived by proof. R.S., c. 119, s. 55; 1960-
61, c. 23, s. 8; 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12.

**52.** Every owner or occupier of a slide,
or other obstruction across or in any
  * (_a_) where the Minister determines it to be
necessary for the public interest that a canal
around a dam or a fish-pass therein should
exist, who, after three days notice in writing,
neglects or refuses to provide a durable and
efficient fishway or canal, or who neglects
or refuses to maintain the same in a good
and effective condition in such place and
of such form and capacity as will admit of
the passage of fish ;
(6) where the Minister requires the installa
tion and maintenance of such fish stops or
diverters as will in his opinion be adequate
to prevent the destruction of fish and to
assist in providing for their ascent, who
after three days notice in writing, neglects
or refuses to provide the same ; or
  * (_c_) where the Minister determines it to be
necessary to provide a sufficient flow of
water over the spillway or crest, with
connecting sluices into the river below, to
permit the safe and unimpeded descent of
fish, who after three days notice in writing,
neglects or refuses to provide such ;
is liable to a penalty of not less than four
dollars and not more than twenty dollars for
each day or part of a day during which such
notice is not complied with. R.S., c. 119, s. 56.

**53.** (1) Where the Minister determines that
the provision, which he deems necessary for
the public interest, of an efficient fishway or
canal around any slide, dam or other
obstruction is not feasible or that the spawning
areas above such slide, dam or other obstruc
tion are destroyed by reason of any such
obstruction, the owner or occupier of any such
slide, dam or other obstruction shall from
time to time pay to the Receiver General
such lump sum or annual sum of money as
may be assessed against him by the Minister
for the purpose of constructing, operating and
maintaining such complete hatchery estab
lishment as will, in the opinion of the
Minister, meet the requirements for maintain
ing the annual return of migratory fish.
(2) Such lump sum or annual sum shall be
payable at such time or times as the Minister
may direct and may be sued for and recovered
full costs of suit in the Exchequer Court
Canada. R.S., c. 119, s. 57.

**54.** Every person who hunts or kills fish or
marine animals of any kind, other than
porpoises, whales, walruses, sea lions and hair
seals, by means of rockets, explosive materials
or explosive projectiles or shells, is liable to a
penalty of not less than one hundred dollars
and costs, or to imprisonment for not less
than three months, or to both, and not more
than five hundred dollars and costs or to
imprisonment for six months or to both. R.S.,
c. 119, s. 58.

**55.** In the Provinces of British Columbia,
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, and in
the Northwest Territories and the Yukon
Territory every owner of a ditch, channel or
canal constructed or adapted for conducting
water from any lake, river or stream for
irrigating, manufacturing, domestic or other
purposes, who
  * (_a_) neglects or refuses to provide and
maintain in a good and sufficient state of
repair at its entrance or intake a fishguard
or a metal or wire grating, covering or
netting with meshes of such dimensions as
the Minister may prescribe, approved by
the Minister or such officer as he from time
to time appoints to examine it, and so fixed
as to prevent the passage of fish from any
lake, river or stream into such ditch, channel
or canal ;
(6) permits the removal of such fishguard,
grating or netting, except for renewal or
repair; or
  * (_c_) during the time such renewal or repair
is being effected, neglects or refuses to close
the sluice or gate at the intake or entrance
of such ditch, channel or canal, so as to
prevent the passage of fish into such ditch,
channel or canal ;
is, after three days notice in writing from the
Minister, or from a fishery officer, liable to a
penalty of not less than four dollars and not
more than twenty dollars for each day or part
of a day during which such ditch, channel or
canal remains unprovided with such duly
approved, and properly maintained netting,
grating or fishguard or closed as the case may
be. R.S., c. 119,s.59.

**56.** Every person who wilfully destroys or
injures any place set apart under the authority
of the Minister for the propagation of fish, or
who fishes therein without written permission
from a fishery officer, or uses therein any
fishing light or other implement for fishing
during the period for which such waters are
so set apart, is liable to a penalty of not less
than fifty dollars and costs and not more
than two hundred dollars and costs, and, in
default of payment, to imprisonment for a
term not less than six months, and not more
than twelve months or to both fine and
imprisonment. R.S., c. 119, s. 62.

**57.** (1) The owner of any vessel who
  * (_a_) permits any dory, flat or other boat
whatever to set out from any vessel engaged
in deep-sea or bank fishing, or to be
launched therefrom for the purpose of
fishing with hooks and lines, trawls, or other
similar appliances, or with intent that the
same shall be used in so fishing, or for the
purpose of examining trawls, set lines or
other similar appliances for fishing without
there being placed in such boat to be
retained therein during absence from such
vessel, a mariner s compass, and at least
two quarts of drinking water and two
pounds of solid food for each man of the
crew of such boat ; or
  * (_b_) fails to supply any vessel by him so
engaged in deep-sea or bank fishing, at the
commencement of its voyage with as many
serviceable mariner s compasses as it carries
boats, in addition to the vessel s compass
and also with the necessary utensils for
holding water and with a serviceable fog
horn or trumpet ;
is guilty of an offence against this Act, and is
liable for each offence to a penalty of not less
than two hundred dollars and costs and not
more than five hundred dollars and costs, or
to imprisonment for a term not less than six
months and not exceeding twelve months, or
to both.
(2) The master of any such vessel from
which a boat is launched or sets out in
contravention of this section is also guilty of
an offence against this Act, and is liable
therefor to a penalty of not less than one
hundred dollars and costs and not more than
two hundred and fifty dollars and costs, or to
imprisonment for a term of not less than six
months, or to both.
(3) The owner and master of any such vessel
that goes to sea or attempts to go to sea
without first obtaining and exhibiting to the
collector or other proper customs officer a
certificate from a fishery officer or other
person authorized by the Minister to grant
such certificates that the vessel is properly
equipped with a mariner s compass and
suitable utensils for holding water for each
boat carried by the vessel and with a
serviceable fog-horn or trumpet, are each
guilty of an offence against this Act and are
each liable therefor to a penalty of not less
than one hundred dollars and costs and not
more than two hundred dollars and costs or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months. R.S., c. 119, s. 63.

**58.** (1) A fishery officer may seize any
fishing vessel, vehicle, fishing gear, imple
ment, appliance, material, container, goods,
equipment or fish where the fishery officer on
reasonable grounds believes that
  * (_a_) the fishing vessel, vehicle, fishing gear,
implement, appliance, material, container,
goods or equipment has been used in
connection with the commission of an
offence against this Act or the regulations ;
(6) the fish or any part thereof have been
caught, taken, killed, transported, bought,
sold or had in possession contrary to any
provision of this Act or the regulations ; or
  * (_c_) the fish or any part thereof have been
intermixed with fish referred to in paragraph
(2) Subject to this section, any vessel,
vehicle, article, goods or fish seized pursuant
to subsection (1) shall be retained in the
custody of the fishery officer making the
seizure or shall be delivered into the custody
of such person as the Minister directs.
(3) Where, in the opinion of the person
having custody of an article, goods or fish
seized pursuant to subsection (1), that article,
goods or fish will rot, spoil or otherwise perish,
person may sell the article, goods or fish
in such manner and for such price as that
person may determine.
(4) The proceeds of a sale referred to in
subsection (3) shall be paid to the Receiver
General or shall be deposited in a chartered
bank to the credit of the Receiver General.
(5) Where a person is convicted of an
offence against this Act or any regulations,
the convicting court or judge may, in addition
to any other penalty imposed, order that
  * (_a_) any vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish
seized pursuant to subsection (1), or
(6) the whole or any part of the proceeds of
a sale referred to in subsection (3),
be forfeited, and upon such order being made
the vessel, vehicle, article, goods, fish or
proceeds so ordered to be forfeited, are
forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada.
  * (_g_) Notwithstanding subsection (5), where
the ownership of any fishing gear, implement,
appliance, material, container, goods, equip
ment or fish seized pursuant to subsection (1)
cannot, at the time of the seizure, be
ascertained by the fishery officer by whom
the seizure is made, the fishing gear, imple
ment, appliance, material, container, goods,
equipment or fish are upon the seizure thereof
forfeited to Her Majesty.
(7) Where any vessel, vehicle, article, goods
or fish have been seized under subsection (1)
and proceedings in respect of the alleged
offence have been instituted, the court or
judge may, except in the case of any article,
goods or fish forfeited under subsection (6),
order re-delivery thereof to the accused upon
security by bond, with two sureties, in an
amount and form satisfactory to the Minister,
being given to Her Majesty or upon security
of a cash deposit, in an amount satisfactory
to the Minister, being given to Her Majesty.
(8) Any vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish
seized under subsection (1) or the proceeds
realized from a sale thereof under subsection
except any article, goods or fish forfeited
under subsection (6), shall be returned or paid
to the person from whom the vessel, vehicle,
article, goods or fish were taken if the Minister
decides not to institute a prosecution in
respect of the alleged offence, and in any
event, shall be returned or paid upon the
expiration of three months from the day of
the seizure unless before that time proceedings
in respect of the alleged offence are instituted.
(9) Except as provided in section 59, any
vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish forfeited
under subsection (5) or (6) shall, after the
expiration of thirty days from the date of the
forfeiture, be disposed of as the Minister
directs.
(10) Notwithstanding subsection (9), any
lobster trap forfeited under subsection (6)
may, at the time of forfeiture, be disposed of
as the Minister directs.
(11) Where any vessel, vehicle, article, goods
or fish have been seized pursuant to subsection
(1) and proceedings in respect of the offence
have been instituted, but the vessel, vehicle,
article, goods or fish or any proceeds realized
from the sale thereof under subsection (3) are
not at the final conclusion of the proceedings
ordered to be forfeited under subsection (5)
and have not been forfeited under subsection
(6), they shall be returned forthwith, or the
proceeds shall be paid forthwith, to the person
from whom the vessel, vehicle, article, goods
or fish were taken, unless there has been a
conviction and a penalty imposed, in which
case the vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish
may be detained until the penalty is paid, or
the vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish may
be sold under execution in satisfaction of the
penalty, or the proceeds realized from a sale
of any article, goods or fish pursuant to
subsection (3) may be applied in payment of
the penalty.
(12) Notwithstanding anything contained
in this section, a fishery officer may, at the
time of seizure, return to the water any fish
seized pursuant to subsection (1) that the
23, s. 10.

**59.** (1) In this section
of appeal" means, in the province in
which an order under this section is made,
the court of appeal for that province as
defined in section 2 of the Criminal Code;
"judge" means
  * (_a_) in the Province of Quebec, a judge of
the Superior Court for the district in which
the vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish in
respect of which an application for an order
under this section is made, were seized,
  * (_b_) in the Province of Newfoundland, a
judge of the Supreme Court of Newfound
land,
  * (_c_) in the Yukon Territory and Northwest
Territories, a judge of the Territorial Court
thereof,
  * (_d_) in any province not referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (c), a judge of the county
or district court for the county or district in
which any such vessel, vehicle, article, goods
or fish were seized.
(2) Where any vessel, vehicle, article, goods
or fish are forfeited to Her Majesty under
subsection 58(5) or (6), any person (other than
a person convicted of the offence that resulted
in the forfeiture or a person in whose
possession the vessel, vehicle, article, goods or
fish were when seized) who claims an interest
in the vessel, vehicle, article, goods or fish as
owner, mortgagee, lien-holder or holder of
any like interest may, within thirty days after
such forfeiture, apply by notice in writing to
a judge for an order pursuant to subsection
(5).
(3) The judge to whom an application is
made pursuant to subsection (2) shall fix a
day not less than thirty days after the date
of filing of the application for the hearing
thereof.
(4) The applicant shall serve a notice of the
application and of the hearing upon the
Minister at least fifteen days before the day
fixed for the hearing.
the judge,
  * (_a_) in the case of a forfeiture under
subsection 58(5), that the applicant is
innocent of any complicity in the offence
that resulted in the forfeiture and of any
collusion in relation to that offence with
the person who was convicted of the offence ;
  * (_b_) in the case of a forfeiture under
subsection 58(6), that the applicant is
innocent of any complicity in the alleged
offence that resulted in the forfeiture and
of any collusion in relation to that offence
with any person who may have committed
the offence ; and
  * (_c_) that the applicant exercised all reason
able care in respect of the person permitted
to obtain the possession of the vessel,
vehicle, article, goods or fish to satisfy
himself that they were not likely to be used
contrary to this Act or the regulations, or,
in the case of a mortgagee or lien-holder,
that he exercised such care with respect to
the mortgagor or the lien-giver ;
the applicant is entitled to an order declaring
that his interest is not affected by such
forfeiture and declaring the nature and extent
of his interest.
(6) The applicant or the Minister may
appeal to the court of appeal from an order
made under subsection (5) and the appeal
shall be asserted, heard and decided according
to the ordinary procedure governing appeals
to the court of appeal from orders or
judgments of a judge.
(7) The Minister shall, upon application
made to him by any person who has obtained
a final order under this section,
  * (_a_) except in the case of any article, goods
or fish disposed of pursuant to subsection
58(3), direct that the vessel, vehicle, article,
goods or fish to which the interest of the
applicant relates be returned to the appli
cant ; or
  * (_b_) direct that an amount equal to the value
of the interest of the applicant, as declared
in the order, be paid to him.
  * (_g_) This section does not apply to
  * (_a_) any lobster trap disposed of under
subsection 58(10), or
(6) any fish that have been returned to the
water pursuant to subsection 58(12). 1960-
61, c. 23, s. 10.

**60.** Should any nets, seines, or other fishing
apparatus be set or used in violation of this
Act or any regulation for more than one day,
then each day during which such seines, nets,
or other fishing apparatus remain so set or
used constitutes a separate offence, and may
be punished accordingly ; and should any
other violation of this Act, or of any
regulation, continue for more than one day,
then each day during which such violation
continues constitutes a separate offence, and
may be punished as such. R.S., c. 119, s. 65.

**61.** Except as herein otherwise provided,
every one who violates or prepares to violate
any provision of this Act, or any regulation,
is liable to a penalty of not more than one
thousand dollars and costs, and, in default of
payment, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding twelve months, or to both. R.S.,
c. 119, s. 66.

**62.** When not otherwise specified every
proprietor, owner, agent, tenant, occupier,
partner or person actually in charge, either as
occupant or servant, shall be deemed to be
jointly and severally liable for any penalties
or moneys recovered under any of the
provisions of this Act, or of any regulation.
R.S., c. 119, s. 67.

**63.** Any fishery officer or fishery guardian,
who violates this Act or any regulation, or
who aids, abets or connives at any violation
of this Act or of any regulation, is liable upon
summary conviction before any recorder,
commissioner of police, judge of the sessions
of the peace, police, stipendiary or district
magistrate or any two justices of the peace,
to a penalty not exceeding five hundred
dollars and costs or six months imprisonment
and not less than one hundred dollars and
costs or three months imprisonment. R.S.,
119, s. 68.
LIMITATION OF SUITS

**64.** Penalties incurred under this Act, or
any regulation, shall be sued for within two
from the commission of the offence.
R.S.,c. 119, s. 70.

## FORM OF PROCEDURE

**65.** Except in so far as in this Act is
otherwise specially provided all penalties and
forfeitures incurred under this Act or under
any regulation are recoverable and enforceable
by summary proceedings taken under the
provisions of the Criminal Code relating to
summary convictions. R.S., c. 119, s. 72.

**66.** No proceeding or conviction under this
Act or under any regulation under it shall be
set aside or quashed on certiorari or otherwise
for irregularity or defect in form, and no
warrant of arrest or commitment shall be held
void by reason of any defect therein, if it is
therein alleged that the defendant has been
convicted, and there is a good and valid
conviction to sustain the same. R.S., c. 119,
s. 73.

## APPLICATIONS OF PENALTIES AND

## FORFEITURES

**57.** The Governor General in Council may
prescribe the manner in which the proceeds of
penalties and the proceeds of the sale of
confiscated articles shall be distributed. R.S.,
c. 119,s.74.

**68.** Persons aggrieved by any conviction
^ or an y offence under this Act may appeal by
petition to the Minister, who may remit
penalties and restore forfeitures under this
Act ; but when a conviction takes place or an
order is made by a justice of the peace or
fishery officer for the payment of money or
dismissing an information or complaint under
this Act, nothing in this section prevents any
who thinks himself aggrieved by any
conviction or order or dismissal, the
or complainant, as well as the
from the right of appeal that he
under the provisions of the Criminal Code
to summary convictions. R.S., c. 119,

**75.**

## APPLICATION OF ACT TO THE HIGH SEAS

**69.** The provisions of this Act and the
regulations that apply to any or all of
Canadian fisheries waters, without anything
in the context of such provisions indicating
that they apply to any specified area of
Canadian fisheries waters, shall, in relation
to any fishing vessel on the High Seas that is
subject to the jurisdiction of Canada, or any
act or thing done or omitted to be done on,
from or by means of any such fishing vessel,
be deemed to extend and apply to the High
Seas. 1960-61, c. 23, s. 13; 1964-65, c. 22, s. 12.

**70.** All courts and justices in Canada have
the same jurisdiction with respect to offences
under this Act as they have under sections
681 to 684 of the Canada Shipping Act and
the provisions of those sections apply to
offences under this Act in the same manner
and to the same extent as they apply to
offences under the Canada Shipping Act. 1960-
61, c. 23, s. 13.
