
# CHAPTER F-16
An Act to implement the International
Convention for the High Seas Fisheries
of the North Pacific Ocean

**1.** This Act may be cited as the North
Pacific Fisheries Convention Act. 1952-53, c. 44,
s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
Commission" means the International North
Pacific Fisheries Commission established
under the Convention ;
Convention" means the International Con
vention for the High Seas Fisheries of the
North Pacific Ocean and the Protocol
thereto, set out in the schedule ;
Convention area" means all waters, other
than territorial waters, of the North Pacific
Ocean including the adjacent seas ;
fishing vessel" means any vessel used in or
outfitted for catching fish or processing or
transporting fish loaded on the high seas ;
Minister" means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry ;
protection officer" means
  * (_a_) a fishery officer within the meaning of
the Fisheries Act,
  * (_b_) an officer of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, or
  * (_c_) any other person authorized by the
Governor in Council to enforce this Act.
1952-53, c. 44, s. 2 ; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64 ; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 99.

**3.** The Convention is hereby approved and
1952-53, c. 44, s. 3.
recommendations of the Commission, and
without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, may make regulations
  * (_a_) for the conservation and protection of
fish in the Convention area ;
(6) prohibiting, limiting or otherwise regu
lating
  * (_i_) the exploitation by citizens or residents
of Canada or by Canadian fishing vessels
of any stocks of fish in any part of the
Convention area,
  * (_ii_) the loading, processing, transporting
or possession of any stocks of fish in or
from any part of the Convention area,
and
  * (_iii_) the landing, importation, sale or
other disposal of fish caught in any part
of the Convention area ;
  * (_c_) respecting the operation of fishing
vessels and the use of fishing gear in the
Convention area ;
  * (_d_) providing for the issue, suspension and
cancellation of licences for the purposes of
this Act, and prescribing their terms,
conditions and forms and fixing the fees
for the issue of licences ;
  * (_e_) for the seizure, forfeiture and disposition
of fishing vessels including equipment or
fishing gear, or fish, by means of or in
relation to which any of the provisions of
the Act or the regulations have been
contravened ;
(/) prescribing the powers and duties of
persons engaged or employed in the
administration or enforcement of this Act
and providing for the carrying out of those
duties and powers ; and
  * (_g_) prescribing the penalties that may be
imposed, either on summary conviction or
on conviction on indictment, for violation
of any regulation by any person in Canada
or on, from or by means of any fishing
vessels. 1952-53, c. 44, s. 4.

**5.** When a fishing vessel of Canada or of
the United States or of Japan, or belonging
to or operated by a citizen, national or
resident of any of those countries is found in
waters in which that country has by or under
the provisions of the Convention agreed to
abstain from exploitation, a protection officer
may in accordance with the provisions of the
Convention board such vessel and inspect its
equipment, books, documents and other
articles, and question the persons on board.
1952-53, c. 44, s. 5.

**6.** (1) When a fishing vessel of Canada or
the United States or Japan or person on board
thereof is found engaging in operations in
violation of the provisions of the Convention,
or there is reasonable ground to believe that
the vessel or person was so engaged immedi
ately prior to the boarding of the vessel, a
protection officer may in accordance with the
provisions of the Convention arrest or seize
such fishing vessel or person.
(2) If the fishing vessel seized as provided
in subsection (1) belongs to or is operated by
a citizen, national or resident of the United
States or of Japan, or the person arrested as
provided in subsection (1) is a citizen, national
or resident of either of those countries, the
protection officer shall immediately notify
the Minister of such seizure or arrest and keep
in custody the vessel or person pending
delivery to the authorized officials of the
country to which such person or vessel belongs
in accordance with the provisions of the
Convention and the directions of the Minister.
(3) If the fishing vessel seized as provided
in subsection (1) belongs to or is operated by
a Canadian citizen or a resident of Canada,
or the person arrested as provided in subsection
(1) is a Canadian citizen or resident of
Canada, the vessel or person shall be dealt
with in accordance with the regulations. 1952-
53, c. 44, s. 6.

**7.** All courts, justices of the peace and
magistrates in Canada have the same juris-
diction with respect to offences under this Act
as they have under sections 681 to 684 of the
Canada Shipping Act, with respect to offences
under that Act, and those sections apply to
offences under this Act in the same manner
and to the same extent as they apply to
offences under the Canada Shipping Act. 1952-
53, c. 44, s. 9.

**8.** This Act shall continue in force until a
day fixed by proclamation of the Governor
in Council following termination of the
Convention in accordance with the provisions
thereof, and no longer. 1952-53, c. 44, s. 8.

## SCHEDULE
Convention for the High Seas Fisheries of the
North Pacific Ocean
The Governments of Canada, Japan and the United States of
America, whose respective duly accredited representatives have
subscribed hereto,
Acting as sovereign nations in the light of their rights under
the principles of international law and custom to exploit the
fishery resources of the high seas, and
Believing that it will best serve the common interest of
mankind, as well as the interests of the Contracting Parties, to
ensure the maximum sustained productivity of the fishery
resources of the North Pacific Ocean, and that each of the
Parties should assume an obligation, on a free and equal footing,
to encourage the conservation of such resources, and
Recognizing that in view of these considerations it is highly
desirable (1) to establish an International Commission, repre
senting the three Parties hereto, to promote and coordinate the
scientific studies necessary to ascertain the conservation measures
required to secure the maximum sustained productivity of
fisheries of joint interest to the Contracting Parties and to
recommend such measures to such Parties and (2) that each
Party carry out such conservation recommendations, and provide
for necessary restraints on its own nationals and fishing vessels,
Therefore agree as follows :
Article I

**1.** The area to which this Convention applies, hereinafter
referred to as "the Convention area", shall be all waters, other
than territorial waters, of the North Pacific Ocean which for the
purposes hereof shall include the adjacent seas.

**2.** Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to affect
adversely (prejudice) the claims of any Contracting Party in
regard to the limits of territorial waters or to the jurisdiction of
a coastal state over fisheries.

**3.** For the purposes of this Convention the term "fishing
vessel" shall mean any vessel engaged in catching fish or
processing or transporting fish loaded on the high seas, or any
vessel outfitted for such activities.
Article II

**1.** In order to realize the objectives of this Convention, the
Contracting Parties shall establish and maintain the Interna
tional North Pacific Fisheries Commission, hereinafter referred
to as "the Commission."

**2.** The Commission shall be composed of three national
sections, each consisting of not more than four members
appointed by the governments of the respective Contracting
Parties.

**3.** Each national section shall have one vote. All resolutions,
made only by a unanimous vote of the three national sections
when under the provisions of Article III, Section 1 (c) (ii)
two participate.

**4.** The Commission may decide upon and amend, as occasion
may require, by-laws or rules for the conduct of its meetings.

**5.** The Commission shall meet at least once each year and at
such other times as may be requested by a majority of the
national sections. The date and place of the first meeting shall
be determined by agreement between the Contracting Parties.

**6.** At its first meeting the Commission shall select a Chairman,
Vice-Chairman and Secretary from different national sections.
The Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary shall hold office
for a period of one year. During succeeding years selection of a
Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary from the national
sections shall be made in such a manner as will provide each
Contracting Party in turn with representation in those offices.

**7.** The Commission shall decide on a convenient place for the
establishment of the Commission s headquarters.

**8.** Each Contracting Party may establish an Advisory
Committee for its national section, to be composed of persons
who shall be well informed concerning North Pacific fishery
problems of common concern. Each such Advisory Committee
shall be invited to attend all sessions of the Commission except
those which the Commission decides to be in camera.

**9.** The Commission may hold public hearings. Each national
section may also hold public hearings within its own country.

**10.** The official languages of the Commission shall be
Japanese and English. Proposals and data may be submitted to
the Commission in either language.

**11.** Each Contracting Party shall determine and pay the
expenses incurred by its national section. Joint expenses incurred
by the Commission shall be paid by the Commission through
contributions made by the Contracting Parties in the form and
proportion recommended by the Commission and approved by
the Contracting Parties.

**12.** An annual budget of joint expenses shall be recommended
by the Commission and submitted to the Contracting Parties
for approval.

**13.** The Commission shall authorize the disbursement of funds
for the joint expenses of the Commission and may employ
personnel and acquire facilities necessary for the performance
of its functions.
Article III

**1.** The Commission shall perform the following functions:
  * (_a_) In regard to any stock of fish specified in the Annex,
study for the purpose of determining annually whether such
stock continues to qualify for abstention under the provisions
of Article IV. If the Commission determines that such stock
no longer meets the conditions of Article IV, the Commission
shall recommend that it be removed from the Annex. Provided,
however, that with respect to the stocks of fish originally
specified in the Annex, no determination or recommendation
as to whether such stock continues to qualify for abstention
shall be made for five years after the entry into force of this
Convention.
(6) To permit later additions to the Annex, study, on request
of a Contracting Party, any stock of fish of the Convention
area, the greater part of which is harvested by one or more of
the Contracting Parties, for the purpose of determining
whether such stock qualifies for abstention under the provisions
of Article IV. If the Commission decides that the particular
stock fulfills the conditions of Article IV it shall recommend,
(1) that such stock be added to the Annex, (2) that the
appropriate Party or Parties abstain from fishing such stock
and (3) that the Party or Parties participating in the fishing
of such stock continue to carry out necessary conservation
measures.
  * (_c_) In regard to any stock of fish in the Convention area ;
  * (_i_) Study, on request of any Contracting Party concerned,
any stock of fish which is under substantial exploitation by
two or more of the Contracting Parties, and which is not
covered by a conservation agreement between such Parties
existing at the time of the conclusion of this Convention,
for the purpose of determining need for joint conservation
measures ;
  * (_ii_) Decide and recommend necessary joint conservation
measures including any relaxation thereof to be taken as a
result of such study. Provided, however, that only the
national sections of the Contracting Parties engaged in
substantial exploitation of such stock of fish may participate
in such decision and recommendation. The decisions and
recommendations shall be reported regularly to all the
Contracting Parties, but shall apply only to the Contracting
Parties the national sections of which participated in the
decisions and recommendations.
  * (_iii_) Request the Contracting Party or Parties concerned to
report regularly the conservation measures adopted from
time to time with regard to the stocks of fish specified in
the Annex, whether or not covered by conservation
agreements between the Contracting Parties, and transmit
such information to the other Contracting Party or Parties.
  * (_d_) Consider and make recommendations to the Contracting
Parties concerning the enactment of schedules of equivalent
penalties for violations of this Convention.
  * (_e_) Compile and study the records provided by the Contracting
Parties pursuant to Article VIII.
(/) Submit annually to each Contracting Party a report on
the Commission s operations, investigations and findings, with
appropriate recommendations, and inform each Contracting
Party, whenever it is deemed advisable, on any matter relating
to the objectives of this Convention.

**2.** The Commission may take such steps, in agreement with
the Parties concerned, as will enable it to determine the extent
to which the undertakings agreed to by the Parties under the
provisions of Article V, Section 2 and the measures recommended
by the Commission under the provisions of this Article and
accepted by the Parties concerned have been effective.

**3.** In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall,
insofar as feasible, utilize the technical and scientific services of,
and information from, official agencies of the Contracting
Parties and their political sub-divisions and may, when desirable
and if available, utilize the services of, and information from,
any public or private institution or organization or any private
individual.
Article IV

**1.** In making its recommendations the Commission shall be
by the spirit and intent of this Convention and by the
below mentioned.
  * (_a_) Any conservation measures for any stock of fish decided
upon under the provisions of this Convention shall be
recommended for equal application to all Parties engaged in
substantial exploitation of such stock.
(6) With regard to any stock of fish which the Commission
determines reasonably satisfies all the following conditions, a
recommendation shall be made as provided for in Article III,
Section 1, (6).
  * (_i_) Evidence based upon scientific research indicates that
more intensive exploitation of the stock will not provide a
substantial increase in yield which can be sustained year
after year,
  * (_ii_) The exploitation of the stock is limited or otherwise
regulated through legal measures by each Party which is
substantially engaged in its exploitation, for the purpose of
maintaining or increasing its maximum sustained produc
tivity ; such limitations and regulations being in accordance
with conservation programs based upon scientific research,
and
  * (_iii_) The stock is the subject of extensive scientific study
designed to discover whether the stock is being fully utilized
and the conditions necessary for maintaining its maximum
sustained productivity.
Provided, however, that no recommendation shall be made
for abstention by a Contracting Party concerned with regard to :
(1) any stock of fish which at any time during the twenty-five
years next preceding the entry into force of this Convention has
been under substantial exploitation by that Party having regard
to the conditions referred to in Section 2 of this Article ; (2) any
stock of fish which is harvested in greater part by a country or
countries not party to this Convention ; (3) waters in which there
is historic intermingling of fishing operations of the Parties
concerned, intermingling of the stocks of fish exploited by these
operations, and a long-established history of joint conservation
and regulation among the Parties concerned so that there is
consequent impracticability of segregating the operations and
administering control. It is recognized that the conditions
specified in subdivision (3) of this proviso apply to Canada and
the United States of America in the waters off the Pacific Coasts
of the United States of America and Canada from and including
the waters of the Gulf of Alaska southward and, therefore, no
recommendation shall be made for abstention by either the
United States of America or Canada in such waters.

**2.** In any decision or recommendation allowances shall be
made for the effect of strikes, wars, or exceptional economic or
biological conditions which may have introduced temporary
declines in or suspension of productivity, exploitation, or
management of the stock of fish concerned.
Article V

**1.** The Annex attached hereto forms an integral part of this
All references to "Convention" shall be understood
including the said Annex either in its present terms or as
in accordance with the provisions of Article VII.

**2.** The Contracting Parties recognize that any stock of fish
specified in the Annex to this Convention fulfills the
conditions prescribed in Article IV and accordingly agree that
the appropriate Party or Parties shall abstain from fishing such
stock and the Party or Parties participating in the fishing of
such stock shall continue to carry out necessary conservation
measures.
Article VI
In the event that it shall come to the attention of any of the
Contracting Parties that the nationals or fishing vessels of any
country which is not a Party to this Convention appear to affect
adversely the operations of the Commission or the carrying out
of the objectives of this Convention, such Party shall call the
matter to the attention of other Contracting Parties. All the
Contracting Parties agree upon the request of such Party to
confer upon the steps to be taken towards obviating such adverse
effects or relieving any Contracting Party from such adverse
effects.
Article VII

**1.** The Annex to this Convention shall be considered amended
from the date upon which the Commission receives notification
from all the Contracting Parties of acceptance of a recommen
dation to amend the Annex made by the Commission in
accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section 1 or of the
Protocol to this Convention.

**2.** The Commission shall notify all the Contracting Parties of
the date of receipt of each notification of acceptance of an
amendment to the Annex.
Article VIII
The Contracting Parties agree to keep as far as practicable all
records requested by the Commission and to furnish compilations
of such records and other information upon request of the
Commission. No Contracting Party shall be required hereunder
to provide the records of individual operations.
Article IX

**1.** The Contracting Parties agree as follows:
  * (_a_) With regard to a stock of fish from the exploitation of
which any Contracting Party has agreed to abstain, the
nationals and fishing vessels of such Contracting Party are
prohibited from engaging in the exploitation of such stock of
fish in waters specified in the Annex, and from loading,
processing, possessing, or transporting such fish in such waters.
(6) With regard to a stock of fish for which a Contracting
Party has agreed to continue to carry out conservation
measures, the nationals and fishing vessels of such Party are
prohibited from engaging in fishing activities in waters
specified in the Annex in violation of regulations established
under such conservation measures.

**2.** Each Contracting Party agrees, for the purpose of rendering
effective the provisions of this Convention, to enact and enforce
necessary laws and regulations, with regard to its nationals and
fishing vessels, with appropriate penalties against violations
thereof and to transmit to the Commission a report on any
action taken by it with regard thereto.
Article X

**1.** The Contracting Parties agree, in order to carry out
faithfully the provisions of this Convention, to cooperate with
each other in taking appropriate and effective measures and
accordingly agree as follows :
  * (_a_) When a fishing vessel of a Contracting Party has been
found in waters in which that Party has agreed to abstain
from exploitation in accordance with the provisions of this
Convention, the duly authorized officials of any Contracting
Party may board such vessel to inspect its equipment, books,
documents, and other articles and question the persons on
board.
Such officials shall present credentials issued by their
respective Governments if requested by the master of the
vessel.
(6) When any such person or fishing vessel is actually engaged
in operations in violation of the provisions of this Convention,
or there is reasonable ground to believe was obviously so
engaged immediately prior to boarding of such vessel by any
such official, the latter may arrest or seize such person or
vessel. In that case, the Contracting Party to which the official
belongs shall notify the Contracting Party to which such
person or vessel belongs of such arrest or seizure, and shall
deliver such vessel or persons as promptly as practicable to
the authorized officials of the Contracting Party to which
such vessel or person belongs at a place to be agreed upon by
both Parties. Provided, however, that when the Contracting
Party which receives such notification cannot immediately
accept delivery and makes request, the Contracting Party
which gives such notification may keep such person or vessel
under surveillance within its own territory, under the
conditions agreed upon by both of the Contracting Parties.
  * (_c_) Only the authorities of the Party to which the above-
mentioned person or fishing vessel belongs may try the offense
and impose penalties therefor. The witnesses and evidence
necessary for establishing the offense, so far as they are under
the control of any of the Parties to this Convention, shall be
furnished as promptly as possible to the Contracting Party
having jurisdiction to try the offense.

**2.** With regard to the nationals or fishing vessels of one or
more Contracting Parties in waters with respect to which they
have agreed to continue to carry out conservation measures for
certain stocks of fish in accordance with the provisions of this
Convention, the Contracting Parties concerned shall carry out
enforcement severally or jointly. In that case, the Contracting
Parties concerned agree to report periodically through the
Commission to the Contracting Party which has agreed to
abstain from the exploitation of such stocks of fish on the
enforcement conditions, and also, if requested, to provide
opportunity for observation of the conduct of enforcement.

**3.** The Contracting Parties agree to meet, during the sixth
year of the operation of this Convention, to review the
effectiveness of the enforcement provisions of this Article and,
if desirable, to consider means by which they may more
effectively be carried out.
Article XI

**1.** This Convention shall be ratified by the Contracting Parties
in accordance with their respective constitutional processes and
the instruments of ratification shall be exchanged as soon as
possible at Tokyo.

**2.** This Convention shall enter into force on the date of the
exchange of ratifications. It shall continue in force for a period
of ten years and thereafter until one year from the day on
which a Contracting Party shall give notice to the other
Contracting Parties of an intention of terminating the
Convention, whereupon it shall terminate as to all Contracting
Parties.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries, duly
authorized, have signed the present Convention.
Done in triplicate, in the English and Japanese languages,
both equally authentic, at Tokyo this ninth day of May, one
thousand nine hundred fifty-two.
[Here follow the signatures on behalf of the Governments of
Canada, Japan and the United States of America.]

## ANNEX

**1.** With regard to the stocks of fish in the respective waters
named below, Japan agrees to abstain from fishing, and Canada
and the United States of America agree to continue to carry out
necessary conservation measures, in accordance with the
provisions of Article V, Section 2 of this Convention:
  * (_a_) Halibut (Hippoglossus stenolepis)
The Convention area off the coasts of Canada and the United
States of America in which commercial fishing for halibut is
being or can be prosecuted. Halibut referred to herein shall be
those originating along the coast of North America.
(6) Herring (Clupea pallasii)
The Convention area off the coasts of Canada and the United
States of America, exclusive of the Bering Sea and of the
waters of the North Pacific Ocean west of the meridian passing
through the extremity of the Alaskan Peninsula, in which
commercial fishing for herring of North American origin is
being or can be prosecuted.
  * (_c_) Salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta, Oncor-
hynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus nerka, Oncorhynchus tschawyt-
schd)
The Convention area off the coasts of Canada and the United
States of America, exclusive of the Bering Sea and of the
waters of the North Pacific Ocean west of a provisional line
following the meridian passing through the western extremity
of Atka Island; in which commercial fishing for salmon
originating in the rivers of Canada and the United States of
America is being or can be prosecuted.

**2.** With regard to the stocks of fish in the waters named below,
Canada and Japan agree to abstain from fishing, and the United
States of America agrees to continue to carry out necessary
conservation measures, in accordance with the provisions of
Article V, Section 2 of this Convention :
Salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta, Oncor
hynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus nerka and Oncorhynchus tschawyt-
scha)
The Convention area of the Bering Sea east of the line
starting from Cape Prince of Wales on the west coast of
Alaska, running westward to 16858 22.59" West Longitude;
thence due south to a point 6515 00" North Latitude ; thence
along the great circle course which passes through 51 North
Latitude and 167 East Longitude, to its intersection with
meridian 175 West Longitude; thence south along a
provisional line which follows this meridian to the territorial
waters limit of Atka Island ; in which commercial fishing for
salmon originating in the rivers of the United States of
America is being or can be prosecuted.
PROTOCOL TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE HIGH
SEAS FISHERIES OF THE NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
The Governments of Canada, Japan and the United States of
America, through their respective Plenipotentiaries, agree upon
the following stipulation in regard to the International
Convention for the High Seas Fisheries of the North Pacific
Ocean, signed at Tokyo on this ninth day of May, nineteen
hundred fifty- two.
The Governments of Canada, Japan and the United States
of America agree that the line of meridian 175 West Longitude
and the line following the meridian passing through the western
extremity of Atka Island, which have been adopted for
determining the areas in which the exploitation of salmon is
abstained or the conservation measures for salmon continue to
be enforced in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to
this Convention, shall be considered as provisional lines which
shall continue in effect subject to confirmation or readjustment
in accordance with the procedure mentioned below.
The Commission to be established under the Convention
shall, as expeditiously as practicable, investigate the waters of
the Convention area to determine if there are areas in which
salmon originating in the rivers of Canada and of the United
States of America intermingle with salmon originating in the
rivers of Asia. If such areas are found the Commission shall
conduct suitable studies to determine a line or lines which best
divide salmon of Asiatic origin and salmon of Canadian and
United States of America origin, from which certain Contracting
Parties have agreed to abstain in accordance with the provisions
of Article V, Section 2, and whether it can be shown beyond a
reasonable doubt that this line or lines more equitably divide
such salmon than the provisional lines specified in sections 1 (c)
and 2 of the Annex. In accordance with these determinations
the Commission shall recommend that such provisional lines be
confirmed or that they be changed in accordance with these
results, giving due consideration to adjustments required to
simplify administration.
In the event, however, the Commission fails within a
reasonable period of time to recommend unanimously such line
or lines, it is agreed that the matter shall be referred to a special
committee of scientists consisting of three competent and
disinterested persons, no one of whom shall be a national of a
Contracting Party, selected by mutual agreement of all Parties
for the determination of this matter.
It is further agreed that when a determination has been made
by a majority of such special committee, the Commission shall
make a recommendation in accordance therewith.
The Governments of Canada, Japan and the United States
of America, in signing this Protocol, desire to make it clear that
the procedure set forth herein is designed to cover a special
situation. It is not, therefore, to be considered a precedent for
the final resolution of any matters which may, in the future,
come before the Commission.
This Protocol shall become effective from the date of entry
into force of the said Convention.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have
signed this Protocol.
Done in triplicate at Tokyo this ninth day of May, one
thousand nine hundred fifty-two.
[Here follow the signatures on behalf of the Governments of
Canada, Japan and the United States of America 1 1952-53 c
44, Sch.
