
## CHAPTER F- 18
Act to implement the International
Convention for the Northwest Atlantic
Fisheries

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Northwest
Atlantic Fisheries Convention Act. 1953-54, c.
18, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" means the International Com
mission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
established under the Convention ;
"Convention" means the International Con
vention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
set out in the schedule ;
"Convention area" means the water defined
in the first paragraph of Article I of the
Convention ;
"fishing vessel" means any vessel used in or
outfitted for
  * (_a_) catching or processing fish, or
(6) transporting fish from fishing grounds ;
"protection officer" means
  * (_a_) a fishery officer within the meaning of
the Fisheries Act,
  * (_b_) an officer of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, or
  * (_c_) any other person authorized by the
Governor in Council to enforce this Act.
1953-54, c. 18, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**3.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying out and giving effect
to the provisions of the Convention and
anything done by the Commission thereunder,
and without restricting the generality of the
foregoing, may make regulations
fish in the Convention area ;
(6) prohibiting, limiting or otherwise regu
lating
  * (_i_) the exploitation by citizens or residents
of Canada or by Canadian fishing vessels
of any stocks of fish in any part of the
Convention area,
  * (_ii_) the loading, processing, transporting
or possession of any stocks of fish in or
from any part of the Convention area,
and
  * (_iii_) the landing, importation, sale or
other disposal of fish caught in any part
of the Convention area ;
  * (_c_) respecting the operation of fishing
vessels and the use of fishing gear in the
Convention area ;
  * (_d_) providing for the issue, suspension and
cancellation of licences for the purposes of
this Act, and prescribing their terms,
conditions and forms and fixing the fees
for the issue of licences ;
  * (_e_) for the seizure, forfeiture and disposition
of fishing vessels including equipment or
fishing gear, or fish, by means of or in
relation to which any of the provisions of
the regulations have been contravened ;
(/) prescribing the powers and duties of
protection officers and other persons
engaged or employed in the administration
or enforcement of this Act and providing
for the carrying out of those duties and
powers; and
(0) prescribing the penalties that may be
imposed, either on summary conviction or
on conviction on indictment, for violation
of any regulation by any person in Canada
or on, from or by means of any fishing
vessels. 1953-54, c. 18, s. 3.

**4.** All courts, justices of the peace and
to offences under that Act, and those sections
apply to offences under the regulations in the
same manner and to the same extent as they
apply to offences under the Canada Shipping
Act. 1953-54, c. 18, s. 4.

**5.** This Act shall be administered by the
Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. 1953-54, c.
18, s. 5 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 99.

**6.** This Act shall continue in force until a
day fixed by proclamation of the Governor
in Council following termination of the
Convention in accordance with the provisions
thereof, and no longer. 1953-54, c. 18, s. 6.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE
Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
The Governments whose duly authorized representatives have
hereto, sharing a substantial interest in the
of the fishery resources of the Northwest Atlantic
Ocean, have resolved to conclude a convention for the
investigation, protection and conservation of the fisheries of the
Northwest Atlantic Ocean, in order to make possible the
maintenance of a maximum sustained catch from those fisheries
and to that end have, through their duly authorized
representatives, agreed as follows :
Article I

**1.** The area to which this Convention applies, hereinafter
referred to as "the Convention area", shall be all waters, except
territorial waters, bounded by a line beginning at a point on the
coast of Rhode Island in 7140 west longitude ; thence due south
to 3900 north latitude ; thence due east to 4200 west longitude ;
thence due north to 5900 north latitude ; thence due west to
4400 west longitude ; thence due north to the coast of
Greenland ; thence along the west coast of Greenland to 7810
north latitude; thence southward to a point in 7500 north
latitude and 7330 west longitude ; thence along a rhumb line
to a point in 6900 north latitude and 5900 west longitude ;
thence due south to 6100 north latitude; thence due west to
6430 west longitude ; thence due south to the coast of Labrador ;
thence in a southerly direction along the coast of Labrador to
the southern terminus of its boundary with Quebec ; thence in a
westerly direction along the coast of Quebec, and in an easterly
and southerly direction along the coasts of New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, and Cape Breton Island to Cabot Strait ; thence
along the coasts of Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick, Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode
Island to the point of beginning.

**2.** Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to affect
adversely (prejudice) the claims of any Contracting Government
in regard to the limits of territorial waters or to the jurisdiction
of a coastal state over fisheries.

**3.** The Convention area shall be divided into five sub-areas,
the boundaries of which shall be those defined in the Annex to
this Convention, subject to such alterations as may be made in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article VI.
Article II

**1.** The Contracting Governments shall establish and maintain
a Commission for the purposes of this Convention. The
Commission shall be known as the International Commission
for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, hereinafter referred to as
"the Commission".

**2.** Each of the Contracting Governments may appoint not
more than three Commissioners and one or more experts or
advisers to assist its Commissioner or Commissioners.

**3.** The Commission shall elect from its members a Chairman
a Vice Chairman, each of whom shall serve for a term of
years and shall be eligible for re-election but not to a
term. The Chairman and Vice Chairman must be
from different Contracting Governments.

**4.** The seat of the Commission shall be in North America at
a place to be chosen by the Commission.

**5.** The Commission shall hold a regular annual meeting at its
seat or at such place in North America as may be agreed upon
by the Commission.

**6.** Any other meeting of the Commission may be called by
the Chairman at such time and place as he may determine,
upon the request of the Commissioner of a Contracting
Government and subject to the concurrence of the Commissioners
of two other Contracting Governments, including the Commis
sioner of a Government in North America.

**7.** Each Contracting Government shall have one vote which
may be cast by any Commissioner from that Government.
Decisions of the Commission shall be taken by a two-thirds
majority of the votes of all the Contracting Governments.

**8.** The Commission shall adopt, and amend as occasion may
require, financial regulations and rules and by-laws for the
conduct of its meetings and for the exercise of its functions and
duties.
Article III

**1.** The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secretary
according to such procedure and on such terms as it may
determine.

**2.** The staff of the Commission shall be appointed by the
Executive Secretary in accordance with such rules and procedures
as may be determined and authorized by the Commission.

**3.** The Executive Secretary shall, subject to the general
supervision of the Commission, have full power and authority
over the staff and shall perform such other functions as the
Commission shall prescribe.
Article IV

**1.** The Contracting Governments shall establish and maintain
a Panel for each of the sub-areas provided for by Article I, in
order to carry out the objectives of this Convention. Each
Contracting Government participating in any Panel shall be
represented on such Panel by its Commissioner or Commissioners,
who may be assisted by experts or advisers. Each Panel shall
elect from its members a Chairman who shall serve for a period
of two years and shall be eligible for re-election but not to a
succeeding term.

**2.** After this Convention has been in force for two years, but
not before that time, Panel representation shall be reviewed
annually by the Commission, which shall have the power,
subject to consultation with the Panel concerned, to determine
representation on each Panel on the basis of current substantial
exploitation in the sub-area concerned of fishes of the cod group
(Gadiformes), of flat-fishes (Pleuronectiformes), and of rosefish
(genus Sebastes), except that each Contracting Government with
coastline adjacent to a sub-area shall have the right of
representation on the Panel for the sub-area.

**3.** Each Panel may adopt, and amend as occasion may require,
rules of procedure and by-laws for the conduct of its meetings
and for the exercise of its functions and duties.

**4.** Each Government participating in a Panel shall have one
which shall be cast by a Commissioner representing that
Decisions of the Panel shall be taken by a two-
majority of the votes of- all the Governments participating
in that Panel.

**5.** Commissioners of Contracting Governments not participat
ing in a particular Panel shall have the right to attend the
meetings of such Panel as observers, and may be accompanied
by experts and advisers.

**6.** The Panels shall, in the exercise of their functions and
duties, use the services of the Executive Secretary and the staff
of the Commission.
Article V

**1.** Each Contracting Government may set up an Advisory
Committee composed of persons, including fishermen, vessel
owners and others, well informed concerning the problems of
the fisheries of the Northwest Atlantic Ocean. With the assent
of the Contracting Government concerned, a representative or
representatives of an Advisory Committee may attend as
observers all non-executive meetings of the Commission or of
any Panel in which their Government participates.

**2.** The Commissioners of each Contracting Government may
hold public hearings within the territories they represent.
Article VI

**1.** The Commission shall be responsible in the field of scientific
investigation for obtaining and collating the information
necessary for maintaining those stocks of fish which support
international fisheries in the Convention area and the
Commission may, through or in collaboration with agencies of
the Contracting Governments or other public or private agencies
and organizations or, when necessary, independently :
  * (_a_) make such investigations as it finds necessary into the
abundance, life history and ecology of any species of aquatic
life in any part of the Northwest Atlantic Ocean ;
(6) collect and analyze statistical information relating to the
current conditions and trends of the fishery resources of the
Northwest Atlantic Ocean ;
  * (_c_) study and appraise information concerning the methods
for maintaining and increasing stocks of fish in the Northwest
Atlantic Ocean ;
  * (_d_) hold or arrange such hearings as may be useful or essential
in connection with the development of complete factual
information necessary to carry out the provisions of this
Convention ;
  * (_e_) conduct fishing operations in the Convention area at any
time for purposes of scientific investigation ;
(/) publish and otherwise disseminate reports of its findings
and statistical, scientific and other information relating to the
fisheries of the Northwest Atlantic Ocean as well as such other
reports as fall within the scope of this Convention.

**2.** Upon the unanimous recommendation of each Panel
affected, the Commission may alter the boundaries of the sub-

**3.** The Contracting Governments shall furnish to the
at such time and in such form as may be required
the Commission, the statistical information referred to in
1(6) of this Article.
Article VII

**1.** Each Panel established under Article IV shall be responsible
for keeping under review the fisheries of its sub-area and the
scientific and other information relating thereto.

**2.** Each Panel, upon the basis of scientific investigations, may
make recommendations to the Commission for joint action by
the Contracting Governments on the matters specified in
paragraph 1 of Article VIII.

**3.** Each Panel may recommend to the Commission studies
and investigations within the scope of this Convention which
are deemed necessary in the development of factual information
relating to its particular sub-area.

**4.** Any Panel may make recommendations to the Commission
for the alteration of the boundaries of the sub-areas defined in
the Annex.

**5.** Each Panel shall investigate and report to the Commission
upon any matter referred to it by the Commission.

**6.** A Panel shall not incur any expenditure except in
accordance with directions given by the Commission.
Article VIII

**1.** The Commission may, on the recommendations of one or
more Panels, and on the basis of scientific investigations,
transmit to the Depositary Government proposals, for joint
action by the Contracting Governments, designed to keep the
stocks of those species of fish which support international
fisheries in the Convention area at a level permitting the
maximum sustained catch by the application, with respect to
such species of fish, of one or more of the following measures:
  * (_a_) establishing open and closed seasons ;
(6) closing to fishing such portions of a sub-area as the Panel
concerned finds to be a spawning area or to be populated by
small or immature fish ;
  * (_c_) establishing size limits for any species ;
(&amp;lt;f) prescribing the fishing gear and appliances the use of
which is prohibited ;
  * (_e_) prescribing an over-all catch limit for any species of fish.

**2.** Each recommendation shall be studied by the Commission
and thereafter the Commission shall either
  * (_a_) transmit the recommendation as a proposal to the
Depositary Government with such modifications or suggestions
as the Commission may consider desirable, or
(6) refer the recommendation back to the Panel with comments
for its reconsideration.

**3.** The Panel may, after reconsidering the recommendation
returned to it by the Commission, reaffirm that recommendation,
with or without modification.

**4.** If, after a recommendation is reaffirmed, the Commission
unable to adopt the recommendation as a proposal, it shall
a copy of the recommendation to the Depositary
Government with a report of the Commission s decision. The
Depositary Government shall transmit copies of the recommen
dation and of the Commission s report to the Contracting
Governments.

**5.** The Commission may, after consultation with all the
Panels, transmit proposals to the Depositary Government within
the scope of paragraph 1 of this Article affecting the Convention
area as a whole.

**6.** The Depositary Government shall transmit any proposal
received by it to the Contracting Governments for their
consideration and may make such suggestions as will facilitate
acceptance of the proposal.

**7.** The Contracting Governments shall notify the Depositary
Government of their acceptance of the proposal, and the
Depositary Government shall notify the Contracting Govern
ments of each acceptance communicated to it, including the
date of receipt thereof.

**8.** The proposal shall become effective for all Contracting
Governments four months after the date on which notifications
of acceptance shall have been received by the Depositary
Government from all the Contracting Governments participating
in the Panel or Panels for the sub-area or sub-areas to which the
proposal applies.

**9.** At any time after the expiration of one year from the date
on which a proposal becomes effective, any Panel Government
for the sub-area to which the proposal applies may give to the
Depositary Government notice of the termination of its
acceptance of the proposal and, if that notice is not withdrawn,
the proposal shall cease to be effective for that Panel Government
at the end of one year from the date of receipt of the notice by
the Depositary Government. At any time after a proposal has
ceased to be effective for a Panel Government under this
paragraph, the proposal shall cease to be effective for any other
Contracting Government upon the date a notice of withdrawal
by such Government is received by the Depositary Government.
The Depositary Government shall notify all Contracting
Governments of every notice under this paragraph immediately
upon the receipt thereof.
Article IX
The Commission may invite the attention of any or all
Contracting Governments to any matters which relate to the
objectives and purposes of this Convention.
Article X

**1.** The Commission shall seek to establish and maintain
working arrangements with other public international organiza
tions which have related objectives, particularly the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the
International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, to ensure
effective collaboration and coordination with respect to their
work and, in the case of the International Council for the
Exploration of the Sea, the avoidance of duplication of scientific
investigations.

**2.** The Commission shall consider, at the expiration of two
of a specialized agency of the United Nations.
Article XI

**1.** Each Contracting Government shall pay the expenses of
the Commissioners, experts and advisers appointed by it.

**2.** The Commission shall prepare an annual administrative
budget of the proposed necessary administrative expenditures
of the Commission and an annual special projects budget of
proposed expenditures on special studies and investigations to
be undertaken by or on behalf of the Commission pursuant to
Article VI or by or on behalf of any Panel pursuant to Article
VII.

**3.** The Commission shall calculate the payments due from
each Contracting Government under the annual administrative
budget according to the following formula :
  * (_a_) from the administrative budget there shall be deducted a
sum of 500 United States dollars for each Contracting
Government ;
(6) the remainder shall be divided into such number of equal
shares as corresponds to the total number of Panel
memberships ;
  * (_c_) the payment due from any Contracting Government shall
be the equivalent of 500 United States dollars plus the number
of shares equal to the number of Panels in which that
Government participates.

**4.** The Commission shall notify each Contracting Government
the sum due from that Government as calculated under
paragraph 3 of this Article and as soon as possible thereafter
each Contracting Government shall pay to the Commission the
sum so notified.

**5.** The annual special projects budget shall be allocated to
the Contracting Governments according to a scale to be
determined by agreement among the Contracting Governments,
and the sums so allocated to any Contracting Government shall
be paid to the Commission by that Government.

**6.** Contributions shall be payable in the currency of the
country in which the seat of the Commission is located, except
that the Commission may accept payment in the currencies in
which it may be anticipated that expenditures of the Commission
will be made from time to time, up to an amount established
each year by the Commission in connection with the preparation
of the annual budgets.

**7.** At its first meeting the Commission shall approve an
administrative budget for the balance of the first financial year
in which the Commission functions and shall transmit to the
Contracting Governments copies of that budget together with
notices of their respective allocations.

**8.** In subsequent financial years, the Commission shall submit
to each Contracting Government drafts of the annual budgets
together with a schedule of allocations, not less than six weeks
before the annual meeting of the Commission at which the
budgets are to be considered.
Article XII
The Contracting Governments agree to take such action as
may be necessary to make effective the provisions of this
Convention and to implement any proposals which become
effective under paragraph 8 of Article VIII. Each Contracting
Government shall transmit to the Commission a statement of
action taken by it for these purposes.
Article XIII
The Contracting Governments agree to invite the attention
of any Government not a party to this Convention to any
matter relating to the fishing activities in the Convention area
of the nationals or vessels of that Government which appear to
affect adversely the operations of the Commission or the
carrying out of the objectives of this Convention.
Article XIV
The Annex, as attached to this Convention and as modified
from time to time, forms an integral part of this Convention.
Article XV

**1.** This Convention shall be ratified by the signatory
Governments and the instruments of ratification shall be
deposited with the Government of the United States of America,
referred to in this Convention as the "Depositary Government".

**2.** This Convention shall enter into force upon the deposit of
instruments of ratification by four signatory Governments, and
shall enter into force with respect to each Government which
subsequently ratifies on the date of the deposit of its instrument
of ratification.

**3.** Any Government which has not signed this Convention
may adhere thereto by a notification in writing to the Depositary
Government. Adherences received by the Depositary Government
prior to the date of entry into force of this Convention shall
become effective on the date this Convention enters into force.
Adherences received by the Depositary Government after the
date of entry into force of this Convention shall become effective
on the date of receipt by the Depositary Government.

**4.** The Depositary Government shall inform all signatory
Governments and all adhering Governments of all ratifications
deposited and adherences received.

**5.** The Depositary Government shall inform all Governments
concerned of the date this Convention enters into force.
Article XVI

**1.** At any time after the expiration of ten years from the date
of entry into force of this Convention, any Contracting
Government may withdraw from the Convention on December
thirty-first of any year by giving notice on or before the
preceding June thirtieth to the Depositary Government which
shall communicate copies of such notice to the other Contracting
Governments.

**2.** Any other Contracting Government may thereupon
withdraw from this Convention on the same December thirty-
first by giving notice to the Depositary Government within one
month of the receipt of a copy of a notice of withdrawal given
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article XVII

**1.** The original of this Convention shall be deposited with the
of the United States of America, which Government
communicate certified copies thereof to all the signatory
and all the adhering Governments.

**2.** The Depositary Government shall register this Convention
the Secretariat of the United Nations.

**3.** This Convention shall bear the date on which it is opened
for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period
of fourteen days thereafter.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, having deposited their
respective full powers, have signed this Convention.
Done in Washington this eighth day of February 1949 in the
English language.
[Here follow the signatures on behalf of the Governments of
Canada, Denmark, France (with a reservation excluding
paragraph 2 of Article I), Iceland, Italy, His Majesty s
Government in the United Kingdom and the Government of
Newfoundland in respect of Newfoundland, Norway, Portugal,
Spain (reserving paragraph 2 of Article I), the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States
of America.]

## ANNEX

**1.** The sub-areas provided for by Article I of this Convention
shall be as follows :
Sub-area 1 That portion of the Convention area which lies
to the north and east of a rhumb line from a point in 7500
north latitude and 7330 west longitude to a point in 6900
north latitude and 5900 west longitude; east of 5900 west
longitude; and to the north and east of a rhumb line from a
point in 6100 north latitude and 5900 west longitude to a
point in 5215 north latitude and 4200 west longitude.
Sub-area 2 That portion of the Convention area lying to the
south and west of sub-area 1 defined above and to the north of
the parallel of 5215 north latitude.
Sub-area 3 That portion of the Convention area lying south
of the parallel of 5215 north latitude ; and to the east of a line
extending due north from Cape Bauld on the north coast of
Newfoundland to 5215 north latitude; to the north of the
parallel of 3900 north latitude ; and to the east and north of a
rhumb line extending in a northwesterly direction which passes
through a point in 4330 north latitude, 5500 west longitude,
in the direction of a point in 4750 north latitude, 6000 west
longitude, until it intersects a straight line connecting Cape
Ray, on the coast of Newfoundland, with Cape North on Cape
Breton Island ; thence in a northeasterly direction along said
line to Cape Ray.
Sub-area 4 That portion of the Convention area lying to the
west of sub-area 3 defined above, and to the east of a line
described as follows: beginning at the terminus of the
international boundary between the United States of America
and Canada in Grand Manan Channel, at a point in 4446

**35.**34" north latitude, 6654 11.23" west longitude; thence due
south to the parallel of 4350 north latitude ; thence due west
to the meridian of 6740 west longitude ; thence due south to
the parallel of 4220 north latitude ; thence due east to a point
in 66W west longitude; thence along a rhumb line in a
southeasterly direction to a point in 4200 north latitude, 6540
west longitude ; thence due south to the parallel of 3900 north
latitude.
Sub-area 5 That portion of the Convention area lying west
of the western boundary of sub-area 4 defined above.

**2.** For a period of two years from the date of entry into force
of this Convention, Panel representation for each sub-area shall
be as follows :
  * (_o_) Sub-area 1 Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, United Kingdom ;
(6) Sub-area 2 Denmark, France, Italy, Newfoundland ;
  * (_c_) Sub-area 3 Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Newfound
land, Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom;
  * (_d_) Sub-area 4 Canada, France, Italy, Newfoundland, Portu
gal, Spain, United States;
  * (_e_) Sub-area 5 Canada, United States ;
it being understood that during the period between the signing
of this Convention and the date of its entry into force, any
signatory or adhering Government may, by notification to the
Depositary Government, withdraw from the list of members of
a Panel for any sub-area or be added to the list of members of
the Panel for any sub-area on which it is not named. The
Depositary Government shall inform all the other Governments
concerned of all such notifications received and the memberships
of the Panels shall be altered accordingly. 1953-54, c. 18, Sch.
[Note : A Protocol to the International Convention for the
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, amending paragraph 5 of Article
II of the Convention, was signed by the parties to the Convention
at Washington on June 25, 1956.
A Declaration of Understanding regarding the International
Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries (concerning
Mollusks) was signed by the parties to the Convention at
Washington on April 24, 1961.
A Protocol to the International Convention for the Northwest
Atlantic Fisheries (Harp and Hood Seals) was signed by the
parties to the Convention at Washington on July 15, 1963.]
