
# CHAPTER F-23
An Act for the support of the prices of
fisheries products

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Fisheries
Prices Support Act. R.S., c. 120, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Fisheries Prices Support
Board established under this Act ;
"fisheries product" means any natural product
of the commercial fisheries of Canada
designated by the Governor in Council and
includes any product derived therefrom, if
so designated ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry. R.S., c. 120, s. 2; 1968-69, c.
28, s. 99.

## FISHERIES PRICES SUPPORT BOARD

**3.** (1) There shall be, under the direction
of the Minister, a Fisheries Prices Support
Board consisting of not more than six
members, including a chairman and a vice-
chairman, to be appointed by the Governor
in Council to hold office during pleasure.
(2) The Board is a body corporate and
politic and shall be deemed to be, for the
purposes of this Act, the agent of Her Majesty
in right of Canada.
(3) The Board has the capacity to contract
to sue and be sued in the name of the
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Board, in the name of the
Board in any court that would have jurisdic
tion if the Board were not an agent of Her
Majesty.
(5) Each member of the Board shall be paid
such sum for his services as the Governor in
Council may from time to time determine.
(6) Three members of the Board constitute
a quorum.
(7) The chairman, and in his absence the
vice-chairman, shall preside at the meetings
of the Board.
(8) In all meetings of the Board, the votes
of the majority of the members govern.
(9) Where any member by reason of any
temporary incapacity is unable at any time
to perform the duties of his office, the
Governor in Council may appoint a temporary
substitute member upon such terms and
conditions as the Governor in Council may
prescribe.
(10) Before any member enters upon the
execution of his duties he shall take and
subscribe before the Clerk of the Privy Council
an oath of office which shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk.
(11) The head office of the Board shall be
in the city of Ottawa, but meetings of the
Board may be held at such other places as
the Board may decide. R.S., c. 120, s. 3.

**4.** The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, employ such
professional, technical or other officers, clerks
and employees, as it may deem necessary for
the proper conduct of its business, and fix
their remuneration. R.S., c. 120, s. 4.

**5.** Any member or employee of the Board
who, at the time of his appointment or
employment under or pursuant to this Act,
held a position in the civil service, or was an
in the Public Service, that he would
have been eligible to receive had he remained
employee in the Public Service. R.S., c.
120, s. 5.

**6.** All property acquired or held by the
Board shall be vested in Her Majesty in right
of Canada. R.S., c. 120, s. 6.

**7.** The Board shall, within three months
after the termination of each fiscal year,
submit to the Minister an annual report of
expenditures incurred and proceedings taken
under the Act, in such form as he may
prescribe, and the Minister shall lay the report
before Parliament forthwith or, if Parliament
is not then sitting, within fifteen days after
the commencement of the next ensuing
session. R.S., c. 120, s. 7.

**8.** Subject to this Act, the Financial
Administration Act applies to the Board. R.S.,
c. 120, s. 8.

## POWERS OF THE BOARD

**9.** (1) For the purposes of this Act, the
Board has, subject to and in accordance with
the regulations of the Governor in Council,
authority
  * (_a_) to prescribe from time to time with the
approval of the Governor in Council prices
at which the Board may purchase fisheries
products ;
(6) to purchase at such prices, directly or
by means of agents, any fisheries product
if such product on inspection meets stand
ards as to grade and quality prescribed by
or under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada, but any fisheries product for which
standards have not been established by the
Government of Canada may be purchased
by the Board or its agents on such basis of
quality as the Board may designate ;
  * (_c_) to pay to the producer of a fisheries
product directly or through such agent as
the Board may determine the difference
between a price prescribed by the Board
with the approval of the Governor in
Council for such fisheries product and the
average price as determined by the Board
at which such product is sold during a
specified period if such average price is
below such prescribed price ;
purchased by the Board ;
  * (_e_) to package, process, store, ship, transport
or export, directly or by means of agents,
any fisheries product ;
0) to enter into contracts or appoint agents
to do anything authorized under this Act ;
(0) to purchase at market or contract prices
and export any fisheries product under any
contract or agreement between Her Majesty
in right of Canada and any other govern
ment or agency thereof, and to do all things
necessarily incidental thereto ;
  * (_h_) to purchase at the request of any
department of the Government of Canada
any fisheries product required by such
department ;
(1) to appoint commodity boards or other
agents to undertake the purchase and the
disposition of fisheries products, but any
boards appointed under this paragraph
shall include representatives of the primary
producers; and
  * (_j_) to appoint a committee, or committees,
to assist the Board in an advisory capacity.
(2) In prescribing prices under paragraphs
(l)(a) and (c), the Board shall endeavour to
secure a fair relationship between the returns
from fisheries and those from other occupa
tions. R.S., c. 120, s. 9.

**10.** (1) The Board may out of moneys
appropriated by Parliament for the purpose
pay all necessary administrative expenses
including reasonable travelling and living
expenses of members of any commodity board
or advisory committee or persons whose
services may be temporarily required by the
Board, while such members or persons are
engaged in the work of the Board.
(2) Expenditures for the purpose of this
Act, other than administrative expenses
provided for under subsection (1), shall be
paid by the Minister of Finance on the
requisition of the Board, out of unappropriat
ed moneys in the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, under and by virtue of the authority
of the Governor in Council on the recommen
dation of the Treasury Board in an amount
not to exceed in the aggregate twenty-five
dollars.
(3) There shall be kept by the Minister of
Finance an account called the Fisheries Prices
Support Account to which shall be charged
all expenditures by the Board other than the
aforesaid administrative expenditures, and to
which shall be credited all proceeds of sale of
fisheries products, which proceeds shall be
available in the Account to pay for further
expenditures of the Board ; the net operating
profit of the Board in each fiscal year, as
reflected in the Account, shall be deposited
to the credit of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, as revenue ; and the net operating loss
in any fiscal year may be recouped to the
Account from moneys appropriated by Par
liament for the purpose.
(4) In determining net operating profits
and losses inventory shall be valued at actual
cost thereof. R.S., c. 120, s. 10.

**11.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations as may be necessary for the
efficient enforcement and operation of this
