Research Board Act. R.S., c. 121, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means The Fisheries Research Board
of Canada ;
"Department" means the Department of
Fisheries and Forestry ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry. R.S., c. 121, s. 2; 1968-69, c.
28, s. 99.

**3.** There shall be a body to be called The
Fisheries Research Board of Canada which
shall be under the control of the Minister.
R.S., c. 121,s.3.

**4.** (1) The Board shall consist of a Chair
man and not more than eighteen other
members.
(2) A majority of the members of the Board,
not including the Chairman, shall be scientists,
and the remaining members of the Board
shall be representative of the Department and
the fishing industry. 1952-53, c. 37, s. 5.

**5.** (i) Th e Chairman of the Board shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council to hold
office for such period, at such salary and
upon such terms and conditions as the
Governor in Council may fix, and the other
members of the Board shall be appointed by
the Minister to hold office for a period of five
years.
(2) A member of the Board, upon the
of his term of office, is eligible for
(3) The Minister may appoint any person,
or designate one of the members of the Board,
to be Acting Chairman who may, if he is not
a member of the public service of Canada, be
paid such remuneration for serving as Acting
Chairman as the Governor in Council may
fix.
(4) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Board and has supervision over
and direction of the work of the Board and
of the persons appointed for the purpose of
carrying out the work of the Board.
(5) The Acting Chairman may exercise all
the powers, duties and functions of Chairman
during the absence, illness or other incapacity
of the Chairman or during any vacancy in
the office of Chairman. 1952-53, c. 37, s. 6.

**6.** The Board has charge of all federal
fishery research stations in Canada, and has
the conduct and control of investigations of
practical and economic problems connected
with marine and fresh water fisheries, flora
and fauna, and such other work as may be
assigned to it by the Minister. R.S., c. 121, s.

**6.**

**7.** The Board shall meet annually at the
city of Ottawa and at such other times and
places as are necessary for the work of the
Board. 1952-53, c. 37, s. 7.

**8.** The Board may make by-laws for the
conduct of its business, but no by-law is in
force until it is approved by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 121, s. 8.

**9.** Except as in this Act otherwise provided
no member of the Board shall receive payment
or emolument for his services as such, but
each member shall receive such payments for
his travelling and other expenses in connection
with the work of the Board as may be
approved by the Governor in Council. R.S.,
c. 121,s.9; 1952-53, c. 37, s. 8.

**10.** All receipts and expenditures of the
Board are subject to examination and audit
Parliament for the work of the Board, or that
the Board may receive through bequest,
donation or the sale of natural history
specimens or from any other source, the Board
shall expend such sums as are necessary for
its work. R.S., c. 121, s. 14.

**12.** The Board shall, as soon as possible
after the close of each fiscal year, make a
report to the Minister upon the work done by
it. R.S.,c. 121, s. 15.
