
# CHAPTER F-25
An Act to encourage fitness and amateur
sport

## SHORT TITLE
\, This Act may be cited as the Fitness and
Amateur Sport Act. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"agreement" means an agreement entered
into under this Act ;
"Council" means the National Advisory
Council on Fitness and Amateur Sport
established by this Act ;
"member" means a member of the Council ;
"Minister" means the Minister of National
Health and Welfare. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 2.

## OBJECTS AND POWERS

**3.** The objects of this Act are to encourage,
promote and develop fitness and amateur
sport in Canada, and, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Minister may,
in furtherance of such objects,
  * (_a_) provide assistance for the promotion
and development of Canadian participation
in national and international amateur
sport ;
  * (_b_) provide for the training of coaches and
such other personnel as may be required for
the purposes of this Act ;
  * (_c_) provide bursaries or fellowships to assist
in the training of necessary personnel ;
  * (_d_) undertake or assist in research or surveys
in respect of fitness and amateur sport ;
  * (_e_) arrange for national and regional con
ferences designed to promote and further
the objects of this Act ;
  * (_f_) provide for the recognition of achieve
ment in respect of fitness and amateur sport
by the grant or issue of certificates, citations
or awards of merit ;
  * (_g_) prepare and distribute information relat
ing to fitness and amateur sport ;
  * (_h_) assist, cooperate with and enlist the aid
of any group interested in furthering the
objects of this Act ;
(0 coordinate federal activities related to
the encouragement, promotion and devel
opment of fitness and amateur sport, in
cooperation with any other departments or
agencies of the Government of Canada
carrying on such activities ; and
0) undertake such other projects or pro
grams, including the provision of services
and facilities or the provision of assistance
therefor, in respect of fitness and amateur
sport as are designed to promote and further
the objects of this Act. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 3.

**4.** The Minister, in furtherance of the
objects of this Act, may with the approval of
the Governor in Council make grants to any
agency, organization or institution that is
carrying on activities in the field of fitness or
amateur sport. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 4.

## AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED

**5.** (1) The Minister may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, enter into an
agreement with any province, for a period
not exceeding six years, to provide for the
payment by Canada to the province of
contributions in respect of costs incurred by
the province in undertaking programs
designed to encourage, promote and develop
fitness and amateur sport.
(2) In this section, "costs" incurred by a
province means the costs incurred by the
province determined as prescribed in the
agreement made under this section between
the Minister and the province.
(3) In this section the expression "programs
designed to encourage, promote and develop
fitness and amateur sport" in respect of a
province, means programs, as defined in the
agreement made under this section between
the Minister and the province, that are
designed to further the objects of this Act.
1960-61, c. 59,s.5.

**6.** Any agreement made under this Act
may be amended
  * (_a_) with respect to the provisions of the
agreement in respect of which a method of
amendment is set out in the agreement, by
that method ; or
(6) with respect to any other provision of
the agreement, by the mutual consent of
the parties thereto with the approval of the
Governor in Council. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 6.

## COUNCIL ESTABLISHED

**7.** (1) There shall be a Council to be called
the National Advisory Council on Fitness
and Amateur Sport, consisting of not more
than thirty members to be appointed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) Each of the members of the Council
shall be appointed to hold office for a term
not exceeding three years.
(3) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members to be chairman.
(4) Of the members of the Council, at least
one shall be appointed from each province.
(5) A majority of the members constitutes
a quorum of the Council, and a vacancy in
the membership of the Council does not
impair the right of the remaining members to
act.
(6) In the event of the absence or temporary
incapacity of any member, the Governor in
Council may appoint a person to act in his
stead during such absence or incapacity.
(7) The Council may make rules for
regulating its proceedings and the perform
ance of its functions and may provide therein
for the delegation of any of its duties to any

**8.** (1) The chairman of the Council shall
paid such remuneration for his services as
be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) The members other than the chairman
shall serve without remuneration, but each
member is entitled to be paid reasonable
travelling and other expenses incurred by him
in the performance of his duties. 1960-61, c.
59, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The Minister may refer to the
Council for its consideration and advice such
questions relating to the operation of this Act
as he thinks fit.
(2) The Council shall give consideration to
and advise the Minister on
  * (_a_) all matters referred to it pursuant to
subsection (1), and
(6) such other matters relating to the
operation of this Act as the Council sees
fit. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 9.

## GENERAL

**10.** The Minister of Finance shall, upon
the certificate of the Minister, authorize
payment out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund of such amounts not exceeding in the
aggregate five million dollars in any one
fiscal year as may be required for the purposes
of this Act. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 10.

**11.** Such officers, clerks and other
employees as are necessary for the adminis
tration of this Act shall be appointed under
the Public Service Employment Act. 1960-61, c.
59, s. 11.

**12.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) defining for the purposes of this Act the
expressions "fitness" and "amateur sport";
  * (_b_) respecting the provision of facilities in
respect of fitness and amateur sport ; and
  * (_c_) generally, for carrying into effect the
prepare an annual report on the work done,
moneys expended and obligations contracted
under this Act and cause a report to be laid
before Parliament if Parliament is then sitting
or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any
of the first fifteen days next thereafter that
Parliament is sitting. 1960-61, c. 59, s. 13.
