
# CHAPTER F-26
An Act for carrying into effect the Agreement
for a Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations between Canada
and certain other Nations and Authorities
WHEREAS the United Nations Interim Com
mission on Food and Agriculture was con
stituted in July 1943 to prepare a plan for a
permanent international organization for food
and agriculture, which plan is embodied in
an Agreement, set out in the schedule,
establishing the Constitution of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations to be signed and come into force as
soon as twenty nations have notified their
acceptance of the Constitution ;
AND WHEREAS Canada is transmitting an
instrument of acceptance of the Constitution
to the Interim Commission on Food and
Agriculture, and it is expedient that the
Governor in Council should have power to do
all such things as may be proper and expedient
for giving effect to the Agreement : Therefore
His Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate and House of Commons
of Canada, enacts as follows:

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
Act. R.S., c. 122, s. 1.

**2.** (1) The Constitution of the Food and
Agriculture Organization is hereby approved.
(2) The Governor in Council may make
such appointments, establish such offices,
make such orders in council and do such
things as appear to him to be necessary for
out the provisions of the Constitution
out in the schedule.
(3) ^.11 expenditures incurred in carrying
out the provisions of subsection (2) shall be
defrayed out of moneys provided by Parlia
ment. R.S., c. 122, s. 2.

**3.** The Secretary of State for External
Affairs shall prepare and lay before Parlia
ment a report of operations under this Act as
soon as practicable after the close of each
fiscal year, but in any event within thirty
days after the end of each fiscal year, or, if
Parliament is not then sitting, within thirty
days after the commencement of the next
ensuing session. R.S., c. 122, s. 3.
collective action on their part for the purposes of
raising levels of nutrition and standards of living of the
peoples under their respective jurisdictions,
securing improvements in the efficiency of the production
and distribution of all food and agricultural products,
bettering the condition of rural populations, and thus
contributing toward an expanding world economy,
hereby establish the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations, hereinafter referred to as the "Organization",
through which the Members will report to one another on the
measures taken and the progress achieved in the fields of action
set forth above.
Article I
Functions of the Organization

**1.** The Organization shall collect, analyse, interpret, and
disseminate information relating to nutrition, food and
agriculture.

**2.** The Organization shall promote and, where appropriate,
shall recommend national and international action with respect
to
  * (_a_) scientific, technological, social, and economic research
relating to nutrition, food and agriculture ;
  * (_b_) the improvement of education and administration relating
to nutrition, food and agriculture, and the spread of public
knowledge of nutritional and agricultural science and practice ;
  * (_c_) the conservation of natural resources and the adoption of
improved methods of agricultural production ;
  * (_d_) the improvement of the processing, marketing, and
distribution of food and agricultural products ;
  * (_e_) the adoption of policies for the provision of adequate
agricultural credit, national and international ;
  * (_f_) the adoption of international policies with respect to
agricultural commodity arrangements.

**3.** It shall also be the function of the Organization
  * (_o_) to furnish such technical assistance as governments may
request ;
  * (_b_) to organize, in cooperation with the governments concerned,
such missions as may be needed to assist them to fulfil the
obligations arising from their acceptance of the recommenda
tions of the United Nations Conference on Food and
Agriculture ; and
  * (_c_) generally to take all necessary and appropriate action to
implement the purposes of the Organization as set forth in
the Preamble.
Article II
Membership

**1.** The original Members of the Organization shall be such of
the nations specified in Annex I as accept this Constitution in
accordance with the provisions of Article XXI.

**2.** Additional Members may be admitted to the Organization
by a vote concurred in by a two-thirds majority of all the
members of the Conference and upon acceptance of this
Constitution as in force at the time of admission.
Article HI
The Conference

**1.** There shall be a Conference of the Organization in which
each Member nation shall be represented by one member.

**2.** Each Member nation may appoint an alternate, associates,
and advisers to its member of the Conference. The Conference
may make rules concerning the participation of alternates,
associates, and advisers in its proceedings, but any such
participation shall be without the right to vote except in the
case of an alternate or associate participating in the place of a
member.

**3.** No member of the Conference may represent more than
one Member nation.

**4.** Each Member nation shall have only one vote.

**5.** The Conference may invite any public international
organization which has responsibilities related to those of the
Organization to appoint a representative who shall participate
in its meetings on the conditions prescribed by the Conference.
N o such representative shall have the right to vote.

**6.** The Conference shall meet at least once in ever. year.

**7.** The Conference shall elect its own officers, regulate its own
procedure, and make rules governing the convocation of sessions
and the determination of agenda.

**8.** Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Constitution
or by rules made by the Conference, all matters shall be decided
by the Conference by a simple majority of the votes cast.
Article IV
Functions of the Conference

**1.** The Conference shall determine the policy and approve the
budget of the Organization and shall exercise the other powers
conferred upon it by this Constitution.

**2.** The Conference may by a two-thirds majority of the votes
cast make recommendations concerning questions relating to
food and agriculture to be submitted to Member nations for
consideration with a view to implementation by national action.

**3.** The Conference may by a two-thirds majority of the votes
cast submit conventions concerning questions relating to food
and agriculture to Member nations for consideration with a view
to their acceptance by the appropriate constitutional procedure.
4 The Conference shall make rules laying down the procedure
to be followed to secure :
  * (_a_) proper consultation with governments and adequate
technical preparation prior to consideration by the Conference
of proposed recommendations and conventions; and
(6) proper consultation with governments in regard to relations
between the Organization and national institutions or private
persons.

**5.** The Conference may make recommendations to any public
organization regarding any matter pertaining to
purpose of the Organization.

**6.** The Conference may by a two-thirds majority of the votes
cast agree to discharge any other functions consistent with the
purposes of the Organization which may be assigned to it by
governments or provided for by any arrangement between the
Organization and any other public international organization.
Article V
The Executive Committee

**1.** The Conference shall appoint an Executive Committee
consisting of not less than nine or more than fifteen members or
alternate or associate members of the Conference or their
advisers who are qualified by administrative experience or other
special qualifications to contribute to the attainment of the
purpose of the Organization. There shall be not more than one
member from any Member nation. The tenure and other
conditions of office of the members of the Executive Committee
shall be subject to rules to be made by the Conference.

**2.** Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the
Conference shall have regard in appointing the Executive
Committee to the desirability that its membership should reflect
as varied as possible an experience of different types of economy
in relation to food and agriculture.

**3.** The Conference may delegate to the Executive Committee
such powers as it may determine, with the exception of the
powers set forth in paragraph 2 of Article II, Article IV,
paragraph 1 of Article VII, Article XIII, and Article XX of this
Constitution.

**4.** The members of the Executive Committee shall exercise
the powers delegated to them by the Conference on behalf of
the whole Conference and not as representatives of their
respective governments.

**5.** The Executive Committee shall appoint its own officers
and, subject to any decisions of the Conference, shall regulate
its own procedure.
Article VI
Other Committees and Conferences

**1.** The Conference may establish technical and regional
standing committees and may appoint committees to study and
report on any matter pertaining to the purpose of the
Organization.

**2.** The Conference may convene general, technical, regional,
or other special conferences and may provide for the
representation at such conferences, in such manner as it may
determine, of national and international bodies concerned with
nutrition, food and agriculture.
Article VII
The Director-General

**1.** There shall be a Director-General of the Organization who
shall be appointed by the Conference by such procedure and on
such terms as it may determine.

**2.** Subject to the general supervision of the Conference and
Executive Committee, the Director-General shall have full
and authority to direct the work of the Organization.

**3.** The Director-General or a representative designated by
him shall participate, without the right to vote, in all meetings
of the Conference and of its Executive Committee and shall
formulate for consideration by the Conference and the Executive
Committee proposals for appropriate action in regard to matters
coming before them.
Article Vm
Staff

**1.** The staff of the Organization shall be appointed by the
Director-General in accordance with such procedure as may be
determined by rules made by the Conference.

**2.** The staff of the Organization shall be responsible to the
Director-General. Their responsibilities shall be exclusively
international in character and they shall not seek or receive
instructions in regard to the discharge thereof from any authority
external to the Organization. The Member nations undertake
fully to respect the international character of the responsibilities
of the staff and not to seek to influence any of their nationals
in the discharge of such responsibilities.

**3.** In appointing the staff the Director-General shall, subject
to the paramount importance of securing the highest standards
of efficiency and of technical competence, pay due regard to
the importance of selecting personnel recruited on as wide a
geographical basis as is possible.

**4.** Each Member nation undertakes, insofar as it may be
possible under its constitutional procedure, to accord to the
Director-General and senior staff diplomatic privileges and
immunities and to accord to other members of the staff all
facilities and immunities accorded to non-diplomatic personnel
attached to diplomatic missions, or alternatively to accord to
such other members of the staff the immunities and facilities
which may hereafter be accorded to equivalent members of the
staffs of other public international organizations.
Article IX
Seat
The seat of the Organization shall be determined by the
Conference.
Article X
Regional and Liaison Offices

**1.** There shall be such regional offices as the Director-General
with the approval of the Conference may decide.

**2.** The Director-General may appoint officials for liaison with
particular countries or areas subject to the agreement of the
government concerned.
Article XI
Reports by Members

**1.** Each Member nation shall communicate periodically to the
reports on the progress made toward achieving the

**2.** These reports shall be made at such times and in such form
shall contain such particulars as the Conference may

**3.** The Director-General shall submit these reports, together
with analyses thereof, to the Conference and shall publish such
reports and analyses as may be approved for publication by the
Conference together with any reports relating thereto adopted
by the Conference.

**4.** The Director-General may request any Member nation to
submit information relating to the purpose of the Organization.

**5.** Each Member nation shall, on request, communicate to the
Organization, on publication, all laws and regulations and
official reports and statistics concerning nutrition, food and
agriculture.
Article XII
Cooperation with Other Organizations

**1.** In order to provide for close cooperation between the
Organization and other public international organizations with
related responsibilities, the Conference may, subject to the
provisions of Article XIII, enter into agreements with the
competent authorities of such organizations defining the
distribution of responsibilities and methods of cooperation.

**2.** The Director-General may, subject to any decisions of the
Conference, enter into agreements with other public international
organizations for the maintenance of common services, for
common arrangements in regard to recruitment, training,
conditions of service, and other related matters, and for
interchanges of staff.
Article XIII
Relation to Any General World Organization

**1.** The Organization shall, in accordance with the procedure
provided for in the following paragraph, constitute a part of
any general international organization to which may be
entrusted the coordination of the activities of international
organizations with specialized responsibilities.

**2.** Arrangements for defining the relations between the
Organization and any such general organization shall be subject
to the approval of the Conference. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Article XX, such arrangements may, if approved
by the Conference by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast,
involve modification of the provisions of this Constitution:
Provided that no such arrangements shall modify the purposes
and limitations of the Organization as set forth in this
Constitution.
Article XIV
Supervision of Other Organizations
The Conference may approve arrangements placing other
public international organizations dealing with questions relating
to food and agriculture under the general authority of the
Organization on such terms as may be agreed with the competent
authorities of the organization concerned.
Article XV
Legal Status

**1.** The Organization shall have the capacity of a legal person
perform any legal act appropriate to its purpose which is not
the powers granted to it by this Constitution.

**2.** Each Member nation undertakes, insofar as it may be
possible under its constitutional procedure, to accord to the
Organization all the immunities and facilities which it accords
to diplomatic missions, including inviolability of premises and
archives, immunity from suit, and exemptions from taxation.

**3.** The Conference shall make provision for the determination
by an administrative tribunal of disputes relating to the
conditions and terms of appointment of members of the staff.
Article XVI
Fish and Forest Products
In this Constitution the term "agriculture" and its derivatives
include fisheries, marine products, forestry, and primary forestry
products.
Article XVII
Interpretation of Constitution
Any question or dispute concerning the interpretation of this
Constitution or any international convention adopted thereunder
shall be referred for determination to an appropriate interna
tional court or arbitral tribunal in the manner prescribed by
rules to be adopted by the Conference.
Article XVni
Expenses

**1.** Subject to the provisions of Article XXV, the Director-
General shall submit to the Conference an annual budget
covering the anticipated expenses of the Organization. Upon
approval of a budget the total amount approved shall be
allocated among the Member nations in proportions determined,
from time to time, by the Conference. Each Member nation
undertakes, subject to the requirements of its constitutional
procedure, to contribute to the Organization promptly its share
of the expenses so determined.

**2.** Each Member nation shall, upon its acceptance of this
Constitution, pay as its first contribution its proportion of the
annual budget for the current financial year.

**3.** The financial year of the Organization shall be July 1 to
June 30 unless the Conference should otherwise determine.
Article XIX
Withdrawal
Any Member nation may give notice of withdrawal from the
Organization at any time after the expiration of four years from
the date of its acceptance of this Constitution. Such notice shall
take effect one year after the date of its communication to the
Director-General of the Organization subject to the Member
year of its membership including the financial year
the date of such notice.
Article XX
Amendment of Constitution

**1.** Amendments to this Constitution involving new obligations
for Member nations shall require the approval of the Conference
by a vote concurred in by a two-thirds majority of all the
members of the Conference and shall take effect on acceptance
by two-thirds of the Member nations for each Member nation
accepting the amendment and thereafter for each remaining
Member nation on acceptance by it.

**2.** Other amendments shall take effect on adoption by the
Conference by a vote concurred in by a two-thirds majority of
all the members of the Conference.
Article XXI
Entry into Force of Constitution

**1.** This Constitution shall be open to acceptance by the
nations specified in Annex I.

**2.** The instruments of acceptance shall be transmitted by each
government to the United Nations Interim Commission on Food
and Agriculture, which shall notify their receipt to the
governments of the nations specified in Annex I. Acceptance
may be notified to the Interim Commission through a diplomatic
representative, in which case the instrument of acceptance must
be transmitted to the Commission as soon as possible thereafter.

**3.** Upon the receipt by the Interim Commission of twenty
notifications of acceptance the Interim Commission shall arrange
for this Constitution to be signed in a single copy by the
diplomatic representatives, duly authorized thereto, of the
nations who shall have notified their acceptance, and upon
being so signed on behalf of not less than twenty of the nations
specified in Annex I this Constitution shall come into force
immediately.

**4.** Acceptances the notification of which is received after the
entry into force of this Constitution shall become effective upon
receipt by the Interim Commission or the Organization.
Article XXII
First Session of the Conference
The United Nations Interim Commission on Food and
Agriculture shall convene the first session of the Conference to
meet at a suitable date after the entry into force of this
Constitution.
Article XXIII
Languages
Pending the adoption by the Conference of any rules regarding
languages, the business of the Conference shall be transacted in
English.
unless the Conference should otherwise determine.
Article XXV
First Financial Year
The following exceptional arrangements shall apply in respect
of the financial year in which this Constitution comes into
force :
  * (_a_) the budget shall be the provisional budget set forth in
Annex II to this Constitution ; and
(6) the amounts to be contributed by the Member nations
shall be in the proportions set forth in Annex II to this
Constitution : Provided that each Member nation may deduct
therefrom the amount already contributed by it toward the
expenses of the Interim Commission.
Article XXVI
Dissolution of the Interim Commission
On the opening of the first session of the Conference, the
United Nations Interim Commission on Food and Agriculture
shall be deemed to be dissolved and its records and other
property shall become the property of the Organization.

## ANNEX I

## NATIONS ELIGIBLE FOR ORIGINAL MEMBERSHIP
Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Domini
can Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, France,
Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq,
Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippine
Commonwealth, Poland, Union of South Africa, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia.

## ANNEX II

## BUDGET FOR THE FIRST FINANCIAL YEAR
The provisional budget for the first financial year shall be a
sum of 2,500,000 U.S. dollars, the unspent balance of which shall
constitute the nucleus of a capital fund.
This sum shall be contributed by the Member nations in the
following proportions :
Per cent
Australia 3.33
Belgium 1.28
Bolivia 29
Brazil 3.46
Canada 5.06
Chile 1.15
China 6.50
Colombia 71
Costa Rica 05
Cuba 71
Czechoslovakia 1.40
Denmark 62
Dominican Republic 05
Ecuador 05
Egypt .. 1.73
El Salvador .. .05
Ethiopia 29
France 5.69
Greece 38
Guatemala 05
Haiti .05
Honduras 05
Iceland 05
India 4.25
Iran
Iraq
Liberia 05
Luxembourg 05
Mexico 1.87
Netherlands 1.38
New Zealand 1.15
Nicaragua 05
Norway 62
Panama .05
Paraguay 05
Peru .71
Philippines 25
Poland 119
Union of South Africa 2.31
U.S.S.R 8.00
United Kingdom 15.00
U.S.A 25.00
Uruguay -58
Venezuela
Yugoslavia -71
Provision for new Members 2.00
Total ...100.00
Done at Quebec, Canada, this sixteenth day of October, one
thousand nine hundred and forty-five, in the English language, in a
single copy which will be deposited in the archives of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and of which
authenticated copies will be transmitted by the Director-General to
the governments of the nations enumerated in Annex I to this
Constitution and of Members admitted to the Organization by the
Conference in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
In witness whereof we have appended our signatures :
[Here follow the signatures on behalf of the Governments of
Australia, the Kingdom of Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon
duras, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Liberia, the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg, Mexico, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, the Kingdom of Norway, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, the Philippine Commonwealth, Poland, the
Union of South Africa, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
the United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, and
Yugoslavia.] R.S., c. 122, Sch.
[Note : A number of amendments to the Constitution of the
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations have
adopted at FAO Conferences.]
