
## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Fruit,
Vegetables and Honey Act. R.S., c. 126, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"broker" means any person engaged in
negotiating consignments, sales or purchases
for or on behalf of the vendor or purchaser
respectively ;
"closed package" means any package the
contents of which cannot be satisfactorily
inspected without removing the cover, lid
or other closing device ;
"commission agent" means any person who
receives and handles produce on commis
sion;
"dealer" means any person who acquires
produce other than as a retailer or who
acting in a representative capacity collects
from two or more primary producers and in
either case sells the produce or consigns or
transports it for sale ;
"establishment" means any plant, factory or
premises in which produce is canned or
preserved for food for export or interpro
vincial trade ;
"export or interprovincial trade" means
shipment out of Canada or out of any
province to any other province thereof ;
"fruit" means fruit known botanically as such
of any kind grown in Canada, but does not
include any species of wild fruit in respect
of which no grade is established ;
ment of this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"produce" means fruit or vegetable as defined
herein and honey, but for the purposes of
sections 10, 11 and 12 excludes honey and
includes any kind of fruit or vegetable not
grown in Canada ;
"to pack" means to place produce in any
package for the purpose of sale ;
"vegetable" means vegetable known botani-
cally as such of any kind grown in Canada.
R.S.,c. 126,8.2.

## REGULATIONS
3, T ne Minister may make regulations
  * (_a_) classifying and establishing grades for
each kind of produce ;
(6) with respect to the inspection, grading,
packages and packing, marking, shipment,
advertisement and sale of produce produced
within or outside Canada ;
  * (_c_) prescribing fees for inspection, registra
tion and licensing ;
  * (_d_) prescribing when and where any regula
tion shall be in force ;
  * (_e_) with respect to the registration of packers
and of persons assembling honey ;
(/) with respect to the licensing of brokers,
commission agents and dealers ;
  * (_gf_) with respect to the cleanliness and
sanitation of all premises in which produce
is graded or packed or in which honey is
assembled, graded or packed ;
  * (_h_) prescribing punishment upon summary
conviction for the violation of any regula
tion including maximum and minimum
fines not exceeding two hundred dollars
and imprisonment not exceeding one month
for default in payment of any such fine;
and
  * (_i_) with respect to any other matter con
cerning which the Minister deems any
regulation necessary for the execution of
the purposes of this Act. R.S., c. 126, s. 3.
INSPECTION

**4.** There may be appointed from time to
time in the manner authorized by law such
inspectors as are necessary for the enforcement
of this Act. R.S., c. 126, s. 4.

**5.** An inspector appointed under this Act
may at any time, for the purposes of carrying
into effect any provision of this Act or
regulations made thereunder,
  * (_a_) enter any place or premises, or any
steamship, vessel or boat, or any carriage,
car, truck or other vehicle used for the
carriage of produce ;
(6) require to be produced for inspection or
for the purpose of obtaining copies thereof
or extracts therefrom, any books, shipping
bills, bills of lading, sales records, tempera
ture records or other papers ;
  * (_c_) inspect any produce that is being
transported by any vehicle and require the
driver of any vehicle suspected to be
carrying produce, to stop for the purpose of
inspection ;
  * (_d_) detain for the time necessary to complete
his inspection, any shipment of produce ;
and
  * (_e_) at the expense of the producer or packer
take samples of honey from any apiary or
other place where honey is prepared or
packed. R.S., c. 126, s. 5.

**6.** Produce detained under this Act or the
regulations shall at all times be at the risk
and expense of the owner, but the inspector
shall immediately notify the packer, owner or
person having possession of such produce, by
prepaid telegram, letter or otherwise, that
such produce is being detained in storage or
otherwise as the case may be. R.S., c. 126, s.

**6.**

**7.** An inspection certificate purporting to
be signed by an inspector is evidence of the
facts stated in such certificate and conclusive
evidence of the authority of the person giving
or making the same without any proof of
appointment or signature. R.S., c. 126, s. 7.

**8.** All produce intended for canning in any
shall be presented for inspection
and grading as provided by the regulations.
R.S., c. 126, s. 8.

**9.** No person shall obstruct any inspector
or refuse to permit produce to be inspected or
give to an inspector a false name or address
or other false information. R.S., c. 126, s. 9.

## LICENSING AND REGISTRATION

**10.** No commission agent shall accept or
offer to accept for sale on commission, or
otherwise deal in, any produce shipped from
a point outside the province in which he
carries on business unless thereto licensed by
the Minister. R.S., c. 126, s. 10.

**11.** No dealer shall ship, buy, accept or
offer to accept or otherwise deal in any
produce shipped from or to a point outside
the province in which he carries on business
unless thereto licensed by the Minister. R.S.,
c. 126,s. 11.

**12.** No broker shall engage in negotiating
shipments on consignment, sales or purchases
of any produce from or to a point outside the
province in which he carries on business for
or on behalf of the vendor or purchaser unless
thereto licensed by the Minister. R.S., c. 126,
s. 12.

**13.** The Minister may at the request of
any provincial growers association authorize
the registration of foremen packers or head
packers in charge of or responsible for the
work of one or more persons engaged in
packing of produce in orchards, packing
houses, warehouses or other premises. R.S., c.
126, s. 13.

**14.** No person shall assemble or ship honey
for export or interprovincial trade unless he
is first duly registered in accordance with the
regulations. R.S., c. 126, s. 14.

## MISCELLANEOUS

**15.** NO per son shall
  * (_a_) transport, pack, advertise, display or
offer for sale, sell or have in his possession
for sale any produce that has not been
graded and inspected and, if in packages,
packed and marked in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the regulations,
the onus of proof of compliance with such
provisions being upon the person charged ;
(6) offer or accept for shipment or ship,
transport, offer for sale or sell any produce
that is below the minimum grade for such
kind of produce, except to a person engaged
in the operation of an establishment or
other manufacturing or processing plant ;
  * (_c_) represent any produce that he packs,
offers for sale or sells in any package to be
of a certain grade, variety or class unless
such produce has been graded and the
package marked in accordance with the
regulations ;
  * (_d_) misrepresent the grade, variety, class or
origin of any produce packed, offered for
sale or sold by him in any kind of package ;
  * (_e_) sell or offer for sale or have in his
possession for sale any produce in any
package of which the faced or shown surface
falsely represents the contents in that more
than ten per cent of the produce is smaller
in size than, or inferior in grade to, or
different in variety or maturity from such
faced or shown surface ;
(/) sell or offer for sale any produce in any
package unless such package is well and
properly filled ;
  * (_g_) pilfer or carelessly handle or destroy
produce in the process of packing or in
transporting, warehousing or otherwise deal
ing therewith ;
  * (_h_) sell, expose, offer for sale or have in his
possession for sale or use again for packing
produce any package previously marked in
accordance with the Act and regulations
unless he first completely removes, erases
or obliterates the previous marks ; or
  * (_i_) without authority
  * (_i_) use any registered number or mark
assigned to any other person ;
  * (_ii_) use any brand, stencil or label
designating the owner, packer or shipper ;
  * (_iii_) alter, efface or obliterate or cause to
be altered, effaced or obliterated, wholly
or partially, any marks of any package
that has been inspected ; or
  * (_iv_) mark any package of produce in a
manner describing or relating to the grade
of the contents otherwise than as required
by any regulation under this Act. R.S., c.
126, s. 15.
15, NO common carrier shall receive for
carriage or carry any produce to a destination
outside the province wherein the same is
received unless such produce is accompanied
by an inspection certificate or other evidence
of inspection prescribed by regulation. R.S.,
c. 126, s. 16.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**17.** Every person who contravenes any
provision of section 9 is guilty of an offence
and liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars and not
less than two hundred dollars and in default
of payment of fine to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two months unless the
fine is sooner paid. R.S., c. 126, s. 17.

**18.** Every person who contravenes any
provision of section 10, 11 or 12 is guilty of
an offence and liable on summary conviction
to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
and not less than one hundred dollars and in
default of payment of fine to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two months unless
the fine is sooner paid. R.S., c. 126, s. 18.

**19.** Every person who contravenes any
provision of section 14, 15 or 16 is guilty of
an offence and liable on summary conviction
  * (_a_) to a fine not exceeding fifty dollars and
not less than twenty-five dollars for a first
offence ;
(6) to a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars and not less than fifty dollars for a
second offence ; and
  * (_c_) to a fine not exceeding two hundred
dollars and not less than one hundred
dollars for each subsequent offence ;
and in default of payment of the fine to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
month unless the fine is sooner paid. R.S., c.
126, s. 19.

**20.** Every person who contravenes any
provision of this Act or regulations in respect
of which no penalty is hereinbefore or in any
regulation specified is guilty of an offence
and liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding fifty dollars and not less than
twenty-five dollars and in default of payment
of the fine to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one month unless the fine is sooner
paid. R.S., c. 126, s. 20.

**21.** All produce and all produce packages
in respect of which any offence against this
Act or regulations thereunder is committed
may be placed under detention by an inspector
at the risk and expense of the owner until
such time as such produce or produce packages
comply with the provisions of this Act or
regulations, or after a conviction of the owner
by a court of competent jurisdiction, may be
forfeited to Her Majesty and may be destroyed
or otherwise disposed of as the Minister may
direct. R.S., c. 126, s. 21.

**22.** Any pecuniary penalty imposed under
this Act is payable to Her Majesty in right of
Canada. R.S., c. 126, s. 22.

**23.** For the purpose of jurisdiction under
the provisions of the Criminal Code relating
to summary convictions, in any complaint,
information or conviction for a violation of
any of the provisions of this Act or regulations,
the matter complained of may be alleged and
shall be held to have arisen at the place where
the produce was packed, sold, offered, exposed
or had in possession for sale or transportation,

**24.** No proceedings taken under this Act
or conviction recorded in any way affect the
right of any person to any legal remedy to
which he may otherwise be entitled. R.S., c.
126, s. 24.

## GENERAL

**25.** Sections 15 and 16 do not apply
  * (_a_) to certified seed potatoes as the same
are defined by the Plant Quarantine Act or
any regulations made in accordance with
that Act ;
(6) to vegetables with the top leaves
attached commonly termed "green vegeta
bles". R.S., c. 126,8.25.
