
# CHAPTER F-32
Act respecting fugitive offenders in
Canada from other parts of Her Majesty s
Realms and Territories

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Fugitive
Offenders Act. R.S., c. 127, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
court" means,
  * (_a_) in the Province of Ontario, the Supreme
Court of Ontario,
  * (_b_) in the Province of Quebec, the Superior
Court,
  * (_c_) in the Province of Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island or British
Columbia, respectively, the Supreme Court
for the province,
  * (_d_) in the Province of Manitoba, the Court
of Queen s Bench,
  * (_e_) in the Province of Saskatchewan, the
Court of Queen s Bench,
(/) in the Province of Alberta, the Supreme
Court of Alberta,
  * (_g_) in the Province of Newfoundland, the
Supreme Court of Newfoundland,
(/j) in the Yukon Territory or the Northwest
Territories, the Territorial Court thereof, or
a court, magistrate, or other judicial
authority designated as hereinafter men
tioned ;
deposition" includes every affidavit, affir
mation or statement made upon oath ;
fugitive" means a person accused of having
committed an offence to which this Act
applies in any part of Her Majesty s Realms
and Territories except Canada, and who
has left that part ;
means any justice of the peace
or any person having authority to issue a
warrant for the apprehension of persons
accused of offences and to commit such
persons for trial. R.S., c. 127, s. 2.
APPLICATION

**3.** This Act applies to treason and to
piracy, and to every offence, whether called
felony, misdemeanour, crime or by any other
name, that is, for the time being, punishable
in the part of Her Majesty s Realms and
Territories in which it was committed, either
on indictment or information, by imprison
ment with hard labour for a term of twelve
months or more, or by any greater punish
ment; and, for the purposes of this section,
rigorous imprisonment, and any confinement
in a prison combined with labour, by whatever
name it is called, shall be deemed to be
imprisonment with hard labour. R.S., c. 127,
s. 3.

**4.** This Act applies to every offence referred
to in section 3, notwithstanding that, by the
law of Canada, it is not an offence or not an
offence punishable in manner aforesaid ; and
all the provisions of this Act, including those
relating to a provisional warrant and to a
committal to prison, shall be construed as if
the offence were in Canada an offence to
which this Act applies. R.S., c. 127, s. 4.

**5.** This Act applies, so far as is consistent
with the tenor thereof, to every person
convicted by a court in any part of Her
Majesty s Realms and Territories of an offence
committed either in Her Majesty s Realms
and Territories or elsewhere who is unlawfully
at large before the expiration of his sentence,
in like manner as it applies to a person
accused of the like offence committed in the
part of Her Majesty s Realms and Territories
in which such person was convicted. R.S., c.
127, s. 5.

**5.** This Act applies in respect to offences
before the commencement of this
in like manner as if such offences were
after such commencement. R.S., c.
127, s. 6.

## PROCEDURE

**7.** (1) Any fugitive, if found in Canada, is
liable to be apprehended and returned, in the
manner provided by this Act, to the part of
Her Majesty s Realms and Territories from
which he is a fugitive.
(2) A fugitive may be so apprehended under
an endorsed warrant or a provisional warrant.
R.S.,c. 127,s.7.

**8.** Whenever a warrant has been issued in
a part of Her Majesty s Realms and Territories
for the apprehension of a fugitive from that
part who is or is suspected to be in or on the
way to Canada, the Governor General or a
judge of a court, if satisfied that the warrant
was issued by some person having lawful
authority to issue the same, may endorse such
warrant in manner provided by this Act, and
the warrant so endorsed is a sufficient
authority to apprehend the fugitive in Canada
and bring him before a magistrate. R.S., c.
127, s. 8.

**9.** A magistrate in Canada may issue a
provisional warrant for the apprehension of a
fugitive who is or is suspected of being in or
on his way to Canada, on such information
and under such circumstances as would, in his
opinion, justify the issue of a warrant, if the
offence of which the fugitive is accused had
been committed within his jurisdiction; and
such warrant may be backed and executed
accordingly. R.S., c. 127, s. 9.

**10.** A magistrate issuing a provisional
warrant shall forthwith send a report of the
issue, together with the information or a
certified copy thereof, to the Governor
General ; and the Governor General may, if
he thinks fit, discharge the person apprehend
ed under such warrant. U.S., c. 127, s. 10.
1 1. A fugitive, when apprehended, shall
be brought before a magistrate, who, subject
to this Act, shall hear the case in the same
manner and have the same jurisdiction and
powers, as nearly as may be, including the
to remand and admit to bail, as if the
were charged with an offence com
within his jurisdiction. R.S., c. 127, s.

**11.**

**12.** If the endorsed warrant for the appre
hension of the fugitive is duly authenticated,
and such evidence is produced as, subject to
this Act, according to the law ordinarily
administered by the magistrate, raises a strong
or probable presumption that the fugitive
committed the offence mentioned in the
warrant, and that the offence is one to which
this Act applies, the magistrate shall commit
the fugitive to prison to await his return, and
shall forthwith send a certificate of the
committal and such report of the case, as he
thinks fit, to the Governor General. R.S., c.
127, s. 12.

**13.** Whenever the magistrate commits the
fugitive to prison, he shall inform the fugitive
that he will not be surrendered until after the
expiration of fifteen days, and that he has a
right to apply for a writ of habeas corpus or
other like process. R.S., c. 127, s. 13.

**14.** A fugitive apprehended on a provi
sional warrant may, from time to time, be
remanded for such reasonable time, not
exceeding seven days at any one time, as
under the circumstances seems requisite for
the production of an endorsed warrant. R.S.,
c. 127, s. 14.

**15.** (i) Upon the expiration of fifteen days,
after a fugitive has been committed to prison
to await his return, or if a writ of habeas
corpus or other like process is issued by a
court, with reference to such fugitive, after
the final decision of the court in the case, if
the fugitive is not discharged by the court,
the Governor General, by warrant under his
hand, if he thinks it just, may order the
fugitive to be returned to the part of Her
Majesty s Realms and Territories from which
he is a fugitive, and for that purpose to be
delivered into the custody of the persons to
whom the warrant is addressed, or some one
or more of them, and to be held in custody,
and conveyed to the said part of Her Majesty s
Realms and Territories, to be dealt with there,
in due course of law, as if he had been there
apprehended.
(2) Such warrant shall be forthwith executed
according to the tenor thereof. R.S., c. 127, s.

**15.**

**16.** Where a fugitive who, in pursuance of
this Act, has been committed to prison in
Canada to await his return, is not conveyed
out of Canada within two months after such
committal, the court, upon application by or
on behalf of the fugitive, and upon proof that
reasonable notice of the intention to make
such application has been given to the
Governor General, may, unless sufficient
cause is shown to the contrary, order the
fugitive to be discharged out of custody. R.S.,
c. 127, s. 16.

**17.** Whenever it is made to appear to the
court that by reason of the trivial nature of
the case, or by reason of the application for
the return of a fugitive not being made in
good faith, in the interests of justice, or that,
for any other reason, it would, having regard
to the distance, to the facilities for communi
cation, and to all the circumstances of the
case, be unjust or oppressive or too severe a
punishment to return the fugitive either at
all or until the expiration of a certain period,
the court may discharge the fugitive, either
absolutely or on bail, or order that he shall
not be returned until after the expiration of
the period named in the order, or may make
such other order in the premises, as to the
court seems just. R.S., c. 127, s. 17.

**18.** A fugitive who has been accused of an
offence within Canadian jurisdiction, not
being the offence for which his surrender is
asked, or who is undergoing sentence under a
conviction in Canada, shall not be surrendered
until after he has been discharged, whether
by acquittal or by expiration of his sentence,
or otherwise. R.S., c. 127, s. 18.

**19.** Whenever a warrant, for the apprehen
sion of a person accused of an offence, has
been endorsed in pursuance of this Act, in
Canada, any magistrate in Canada has the
same power of issuing a warrant to search for
any property alleged to have been stolen or
to have been otherwise unlawfully taken or
obtained by such person, or otherwise to be
the subject of such offence, as that magistrate
have if the property had been stolen
or otherwise unlawfully taken or obtained, or
offence had been committed wholly within
jurisdiction of such magistrate. R.S., c.
127, s. 19.

**20.** Any judge of the court may, either in
term time or vacation, exercise in chambers,
all the powers conferred by this Act upon the
court. R.S., c. 127, s. 20.

**21.** (1) An endorsement of a warrant in
pursuance of this Act shall be signed by the
authority endorsing the warrant, and shall
authorize all or any of the persons named in
the endorsement, and of the persons to whom
the warrant was originally directed, and also
every constable, to execute the warrant within
Canada by apprehending the person named
in it, and bringing him before a magistrate in
Canada, whether he is the magistrate named
in the endorsement or some other.
(2) Every warrant, summons, subpoena and
process, and every endorsement made in
pursuance of this Act thereon, shall, for the
purposes of this Act, remain in force,
notwithstanding that the person signing the
warrant or such endorsement dies or ceases to
hold office. R.S., c. 127, s. 21.

## RETURN OF FUGITIVE

**22.** Whenever a fugitive or prisoner is
authorized to be returned to any part of Her
Majesty s Realms and Territories in pursuance
of this Act, such fugitive or prisoner may be
sent in any ship registered in Canada or
belonging to the Government of Canada.
R.S., c. 127, s. 22.

**23.** The Governor General may, by the
warrant for the return of the fugitive, order
the master of any ship registered in Canada,
bound to the said part of Her Majesty s
Realms and Territories, to receive such
fugitive or prisoner, and afford a passage and
subsistence during the voyage to him, and to
the person having him in custody, and to the
witnesses; but such master shall not be
required to receive more than one fugitive or
prisoner for every hundred tons of his ship s
registered tonnage, or more than one witness
for every fifty tons of such tonnage. R.S., c.
127, s. 23.

**24.** The Governor General shall cause to
6 en dorsed upon the agreement of the ship
particulars with respect to any fugitive
or witness sent in the ship, as the
of Transport, from time to time,
R.S., c. 127, s. 24.

**25.** Every such master shall, on his ship s
arrival in the said part of Her Majesty s
Realms and Territories, cause such fugitive
or prisoner, if he is not in the custody of any
person, to be given into the custody of some
constable there, to be dealt with according to
law. R.S., c. 127, s. 25.

**26.** Every master who fails, on payment or
tender of a reasonable amount for expenses,
to comply with an order made in pursuance
of this Act, or to cause a fugitive or prisoner
committed to his charge to be given into
custody as required by this Act, is liable, on
summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars. R.S., c. 127, s. 26.

## EVIDENCE

**27.** A magistrate may take depositions for
the purposes of this Act, in the absence of a
person accused of an offence, in like manner
as he might take the depositions if the person
were present and accused of the offence before
him. R.S.,c. 127, s. 27.

**28.** Depositions whether taken in the
absence of the fugitive or otherwise and copies
thereof, and official certificates of, or judicial
documents stating facts, may, if duly authen
ticated, be received in evidence in proceedings
under this Act. R.S., c. 127, s. 28.

**29.** (1) Warrants and depositions, and
copies thereof, and official certificates of
facts, or judicial documents stating facts, shall
be deemed duly authenticated for the purposes
of this Act if they are authenticated in the
manner provided for the time being by law,
or if they purport to be signed by or
authenticated by the signature of a judge,
magistrate or officer of the part of Her
Majesty s Realms and Territories in which
they are issued, taken or made, and are
authenticated either by the oath of some
witness, or by being sealed with the official
seal of a secretary of state, or with the public
of a British possession, or with the official
seal of a governor of a British possession, or
of a foreign and Commonwealth secretary, or
of some secretary or minister administering a
department of the government of a British
possession.
(2) All courts and magistrates shall take
judicial notice of every such seal, and shall
admit in evidence without further proof the
documents authenticated by it. R.S., c. 127, s.

**29.**
