
# CHAPTER F-33
An Act to implement the Interim Convention
on Conservation of North Pacific Fur
Seals

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Pacific Fur
Seals Convention Act. 1957, c. 31, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" means the North Pacific Fur
Seal Commission established under the
Convention ;
"Convention" means the Interim Convention
on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals,
set out in the schedule to this Act ;
"convention country" means Canada, Japan,
the United States or the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics ;
"convention waters" means the waters of the
Pacific Ocean north of the thirtieth parallel
of north latitude, and includes the Bering
Sea, the Okhotsk Sea and the Sea of Japan ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry ;
"pelagic sealing" means the killing, taking or
hunting in any manner whatever of fur
seals at sea ;
"protection officer" means
  * (_a_) a fishery officer within the meaning of
the Fisheries Act, or
(6) any other person authorized by the
Minister to enforce this Act ;
"vessel" includes any ship, boat, canoe, or
any other description of vessel used in
navigation. 1957, c. 31, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 99.

## GENERAL

**3.** The Convention is hereby approved and
1957, c. 31, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may do and
authorize such things as are necessary for
carrying out and giving effect to the provisions
of the Convention and the recommendations
of the Commission thereunder. 1957, c. 31, s.

**4.**

## OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENT

**5.** Every person is guilty of an offence
who, being a citizen or resident of Canada or
a member of the crew of a vessel subject to
the jurisdiction of Canada, engages in pelagic
sealing in convention waters. 1957, c. 31, s. 5.

**6.** Every person is guilty of an offence who
uses any port or harbour or territory within
Canada for the purpose of equipping any
vessel intended to be used in pelagic sealing.
1957, c. 31, s. 6.

**7.** Sections 5 and 6 do not apply to
  * (_a_) an Indian or an Eskimo dwelling on the
coast of Canada contiguous to the conven
tion waters, while engaging in pelagic
sealing in convention waters in the manner
provided for in Article VII of the Conven
tion, or
(6) vessels owned or chartered by the
Government of Canada or members of the
crew thereof or other personnel engaged in
pelagic sealing for research purposes in
accordance with the provisions of the
Convention. 1957, c. 31, s. 7.
g. Every person is guilty of an offence who
imports, buys, sells, ships or otherwise deals
in any skins of fur seals of North Pacific
origin except skins officially marked and
certified as being skins
  * (_a_) taken by the United States of America
or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
on rookeries,
(6) taken at sea for research purposes in
accordance with the Convention,
  * (_c_) taken by Indians, Ainos, Aleuts or
Eskimos dwelling on the coasts of the
convention waters, in accordance with the
provisions of Article VII of the Convention,
or
  * (_d_) confiscated under the provisions of this
Act. 1957, c. 31, s. 8.

**9.** Every person who is guilty of an offence
against this Act is liable upon summary
conviction to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars and not more than one
thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both. 1957,
c. 31,s.9.

## SEIZURE, ARREST AND FORFEITURE
io. (1) When a protection officer has
reasonable cause to believe that any vessel
outfitted for the harvesting of living marine
resources and subject to the jurisdiction of a
convention country, is engaged in pelagic
sealing in convention waters contrary to the
provisions of the Convention or this Act, he
may, except within the territorial waters of a
convention country other than Canada, board
and search such vessel ; and if after searching
the vessel , the protection officer has reasonable
cause to believe that the vessel or any person
on board thereof is offending against the
prohibition of pelagic sealing in the Conven
tion or this Act, he may seize such vessel or
arrest such person.
(2) If the vessel seized or the person arrested
as provided in subsection (1) is subject to the
jurisdiction of a convention country other
than Canada, the protection officer shall
immediately notify the Minister of such
seizure or arrest and keep in custody the
vessel or person pending delivery to the
authorized officials of the convention country
to which such vessel or person belongs in
accordance with the provisions of the Con
vention and the directions of the Minister.
1957, c. 31, s. 10.

**11.** (1) Whenever a protection officer sus
pects on reasonable grounds that an offence
against this Act has been committed by means
of or in relation to a vessel subject to the
jurisdiction of Canada, he may anywhere,
except within the territorial waters of a
convention country other than Canada, seize
  * (_a_) the vessel,
  * (_b_) any goods aboard the vessel, including
equipment, furniture, stores and cargo, or
  * (_c_) the vessel and any of the goods
mentioned in paragraph (b).
(2) A protection officer may anywhere,
except within the territorial waters of a
convention country other than Canada, arrest
without warrant any person subject to the
jurisdiction of Canada, whom he on reasonable
grounds suspects of having committed an
offence against this Act.
(3) Subject to this section, the vessel and
goods seized under subsection (1) shall be
retained in the custody of the protection
officer making the seizure or shall be delivered
into the custody of such person as the Minister
directs.
(4) Where perishable goods are seized under
subsection (1) the protection officer or other
person having the custody thereof may sell
them, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
paid to the Receiver General or shall be
deposited in a chartered bank to the credit of
the Receiver General. 1957, c. 31, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Where a person is convicted of an
offence against this Act, the convicting court
or judge may, in addition to any other
penalty imposed, order that
  * (_a_) any vessel seized under section 11 by
means of or in relation to which the offence
was committed,
(6) any goods aboard the vessel, including
equipment, furniture, stores and cargo, or,
if any of the goods have been sold under
subsection 11(4), the proceeds thereof, or
  * (_c_) the vessel and any of the goods
mentioned in paragraph (6), or the proceeds
thereof,
be forfeited, and upon such order being made
the vessel, goods or proceeds so ordered to be
are forfeited to Her Majesty in right
of Canada.
(2) Where a vessel or goods have been seized
under section 11 and proceedings in respect
of the offence have been instituted, the court
or judge may, with the consent of the
protection officer who made the seizure, order
re-delivery thereof to the accused upon
security by bond, with two sureties, in an
amount and form satisfactory to the Minister,
being given to Her Majesty.
(3) Any vessel or goods seized under section
11 or the proceeds realized from a sale thereof
under subsection 11(4) shall be returned or
paid to the person from whom the vessel or
goods were taken if the Minister decides not
to institute a prosecution in respect of the
offence, and in any event shall be so returned
or paid upon the expiration of three months
from the day of seizure unless before that
time proceedings in respect of the offence are
instituted.
(4) Where proceedings in respect of an
offence against this Act have been instituted
and a vessel or goods are at the final
conclusion of the proceedings ordered to be
forfeited, they may be disposed of as the
Minister directs.
(5) Where a vessel or goods have been seized
under section 11 and proceedings in respect
of the offence have been instituted, but the
vessel or goods or any proceeds realized from
a sale thereof under subsection 11(4) are not
at the final conclusion of the proceedings
ordered to be forfeited, they shall be returned
or the proceeds shall be paid to the person
from whom the vessel or goods were taken,
unless there has been a conviction and a fine
imposed, in which case the vessel or goods
may be detained until the fine is paid, or the
vessel and the goods may be sold under
execution in satisfaction of the fine, or the
realized from a sale of any of the
goods under subsection 11(4) may be applied
in payment of the fine. 1957, c. 31, s. 12.
JURISDICTION OF COUHTS

**13.** All courts, justices of the peace and
magistrates in Canada have the same juris
diction with respect to offences under this Act
as they have under sections 681 to 684 of the
Canada Shipping Act with respect to offences
under that Act, and the provisions of those
sections apply to offences under this Act in
the same manner and to the same extent as
they apply to offences under the Canada
Shipping Act. 1957, c. 31, s. 13.

## DURATION

**14.** This Act shall continue in force until
a day to be fixed by proclamation of the
Governor in Council following upon the
termination of the Convention, and no longer.
1957, c. 31, s. 15.

## SCHEDULE
Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals
The Governments of Canada, Japan, the Union of Soviet
Republics, and the United States of America,
Desiring to take effective measures towards achieving the
maximum sustainable productivity of the fur seal resources of
the North Pacific Ocean so that the fur seal populations can be
brought to and maintained at the levels which will provide the
greatest harvest year after year, with due regard to their relation
to the productivity of other living marine resources of the area,
Recognizing that in order to determine such measures it is
necessary to conduct adequate scientific research on the said
resources, and
Desiring to provide for international cooperation in achieving
these objectives,
Agree as follows :
Article I

**1.** The term "pelagic sealing" is hereby defined for the
purposes of this Convention as meaning the killing, taking, or
hunting in any manner whatsoever of fur seals at sea.

**2.** The words "each year", "annual" and "annually" as used
hereinafter refer to Convention year, that is, the year beginning
on the date of entry into force of the Convention.

**3.** Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to affect in
any way the position of the Parties in regard to the limits of
territorial waters or to the jurisdiction over fisheries.
Article II

**1.** In order to realize the objectives of this Convention, the
Parties agree to coordinate necessary scientific research programs
and to cooperate in investigating the fur seal resources of the
North Pacific Ocean to determine :
  * (_a_) what measures may be necessary to make possible the
maximum sustainable productivity of the fur seal resources so
that the fur seal populations can be brought to and maintained
at the levels which will provide the greatest harvest year after
year; and
(6) what the relationship is between fur seals and other living
marine resources and whether fur seals have detrimental
effects on other living marine resources substantially exploited
by any of the Parties and, if so, to what extent.

**2.** The research referred to in the preceding paragraph shall
include studies of the following subjects :
  * (_a_) size of each fur seal herd and its age and sex composition ;
(6) natural mortality of the different age groups and
recruitment of young to each age or size class at present and
subsequent population levels ;
  * (_c_) with regard to each of the herds, the effect upon the
magnitude of recruitment of variations in the size and the age
and sex composition of the annual kill ;
  * (_d_) migration routes of fur seals and their wintering areas ;
  * (_e_) numbers of seals from each herd found on the migration
routes and in wintering areas and their ages and sexes ;
(/) extent to which the food habits of fur seals affect
commercial fish catches and the damage fur seals inflict on
fishing gear ; and
  * (_g_) other subjects involved in achieving the objectives of the
Convention, as determined by the Commission established
under Article V, paragraph 1.

**3.** In furtherance of the research referred to in this Article,
each of the Parties agrees to carry out, each year after the entry
into force of the Convention, the programs set forth in the
Schedule annexed to the Convention with any modifications
thereof made pursuant to Article V, paragraph 3. The said
Schedule, together with any such modifications, shall be
considered an integral part of this Convention.

**4.** Each Party agrees to provide the Commission annually
with information on:
  * (_a_) number of black pups tagged for each breeding area;
(6) number of fur seals, by sex and estimated age, taken at
sea and on each breeding area ; and
  * (_c_) tagged seals recovered on land and at sea ;
and, so far as is practicable, other information pertinent to
scientific research which the Commission may request.

**5.** The Parties further agree to provide for the exchange of
scientific personnel ; each such exchange shall be subject to
mutual consent of the Parties directly concerned.

**6.** The Parties agree to use for the scientific pelagic research
provided for in this Article only government-owned or
government-chartered vessels operating under strict control of
their respective authorities. Each Party shall communicate to
the other Parties the names and descriptions of vessels which
are to be used for pelagic research.
Article III
In order to realize the purposes of the Convention, including
the carrying out of the coordinated and cooperative research,
each Party agrees to prohibit pelagic sealing, except as provided
in Article II, paragraph 3 and the Schedule, in the Pacific Ocean
north of the 30th parallel of north latitude including the seas of
Bering, Okhotsk, and Japan by any person or vessel subject to
its jurisdiction.
Article IV

**1.** Each Party shall bear the expense of its own research. Title
to sealskins taken during the research shall vest in the Party
conducting such research.

**2.** If the total number of seals of the Commander Islands
breeding grounds decreases and falls below 50,000 head, according
to data in official records, then commercial killing of seals and
apportionment of skins may be suspended by the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics until the number of seals exceeds
head. This provision also applies to the fur seal herd of
Island, if the population of that herd becomes less than
head.

**3.** The Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
upon suspending such sealing shall so inform the other Parties.
this case the Commission shall determine whether or not to
the level of or to suspend completely the pelagic sealing
for scientific purposes in the Western Pacific Ocean during the
period of the said suspension.

**4.** The Commission may, subsequent to the second year of
operation of the Convention, modify the floor figure set forth
in paragraph 2 of this Article in accordance with its findings
based upon scientific data received by it; and if any such
modifications are made, paragraph 2 of this Article shall be
considered amended accordingly. The Commission shall notify
each Party of every such amendment and of the effective date
thereof.
Article V

**1.** The Parties agree to establish the North Pacific Fur Seal
Commission to be composed of one member from each Party.

**2.** The duties of the Commission shall be to :
  * (_o_) formulate and coordinate research programs designed to
achieve the objectives set forth in Article II, paragraph 1 ;
(6) recommend these coordinated research programs to the
respective Parties for implementation ;
  * (_c_) study the data obtained from the implementation of such
coordinated research programs ;
  * (_d_) recommend appropriate measures to the Parties on the
basis of the findings obtained from the implementation of
such coordinated research programs, including measures
regarding the size and the sex and age composition of the
seasonal commercial kill from a herd ; and
  * (_e_) recommend to the Parties at the end of the fifth year after
entry into force of this Convention and, if the Convention is
continued under the provisions of Article XIII, paragraph 4,
at a later year, the methods of sealing best suited to achieve
the objectives of this Convention ; the above-mentioned later
year shall be fixed by the Parties at the meeting early in the
sixth year provided for in Article XI.

**3.** The Commission may, subsequent to the first year of
operation of the Convention, modify in accordance with its
scientific findings the research programs set forth in the Schedule
and, if any such modifications are made, the Schedule shall be
considered amended accordingly. The Commission shall notify
each Party of every such amendment and of the effective date
thereof.

**4.** Each Party shall have one vote. Decisions and recommen
dations shall be made by unanimous vote. With respect to any
recommendations regarding the size and the sex and age
composition of the seasonal commercial kill from a herd, only
those Parties sharing in the sealskins from that herd under the
provisions of Article IX, paragraph 1 shall vote.

**5.** The Commission shall elect from its members a Chairman
and other necessary officials and shall adopt rules of procedure
for the conduct of its work.

**6.** The Commission shall hold an annual meeting at such
time and place as it may decide. Additional meetings shall be
held when requested by two or more members of the Commission.
The time and place of the first meeting shall be determined by
agreement among the Parties.

**7.** The expenses of each member of the Commission shall be
by his own Government. Such joint expenses as may be
incurred by the Commission shall be defrayed by the Parties by
equal contributions. Each Party shall also contribute to the
annually an amount equivalent to the value of the
it confiscates under the provisions of Article VI,
paragraph 5.

**8.** The Commission shall submit an annual report of its
activities to the Parties.

**9.** The Commission may from time to time make recommen
dations to the Parties on any matter which relates to the fur
seal resources or to the administration of the Commission.
Article VI
In order to implement the provisions of Article III, the Parties
agree as follows :

**1.** When a duly authorized official of any of the Parties has
reasonable cause to believe that any vessel outfitted for the
harvesting of living marine resources and subject to the
jurisdiction of any of the Parties is offending against the
prohibition of pelagic sealing as provided for by Article III, he
may, except within the territorial waters of another State, board
and search such vessel. Such official shall carry a special
certificate issued by the competent authorities of his Government
and drawn up in the English, Japanese, and Russian languages
which shall be exhibited to the master of the vessel upon request.

**2.** When the official after searching a vessel continues to have
reasonable cause to believe that the vessel or any person on
board thereof is offending against the prohibition, he may seize
or arrest such vessel or person. In that case, the Party to which
the official belongs shall as soon as possible notify the Party
having jurisdiction over the vessel or person of such arrest or
seizure and shall deliver the vessel or person as promptly as
practicable to the authorized officials of the Party having
jurisdiction over the vessel or person at a place to be agreed
upon by both Parties ; provided, however, that when the Party
receiving notification cannot immediately accept delivery of the
vessel or person, the Party which gives such notification may,
upon request of the other Party, keep the vessel or person under
surveillance within its own territory, under the conditions agreed
upon by both Parties.

**3.** The authorities of the Party to which such person or vessel
belongs alone shall have jurisdiction to try any case arising
under Article III and this Article and to impose penalties in
connection therewith.

**4.** The witnesses or their testimony and other proofs necessary
to establish the offense, so far as they are under the control of
any of the Parties, shall be furnished with all reasonable
promptness to the authorities of the Party having jurisdiction
to try the case.

**5.** Sealskins discovered on seized vessels shall be subject to
confiscation on the decision of the court or other authorities of
the Party under whose jurisdiction the trial of a case takes
place.

**6.** Full details of punitive measures applied to offenders
against the prohibition shall be communicated to the other
Parties not later than three months after the application of the.
penalty.
Article VII
The provisions of this Convention shall not apply to Indians,
Ainos, Aleuts, or Eskimos dwelling on the coast of the waters
mentioned in Article III, who carry on pelagic sealing in canoes
not transported by or used in connection with other vessels, and
propelled entirely by oars, paddles, or sails, and manned by not
more than five persons each, in the way hitherto practiced and
without the use of firearms ; provided that such hunters are not
in the employment of other persons or under contract to deliver
the skins to any person.
Article VIII

**1.** Each Party agrees that no person or vessel shall be permitted
to use any of its ports or harbors or any part of its territory for
any purpose designed to violate the prohibition set forth in
Article III.

**2.** Each Party also agrees to prohibit the importation and
delivery into and the traffic within its territories of skins of fur
seals taken in the area of the North Pacific Ocean mentioned in
Article III, except only those taken by the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics or the United States of America on rookeries,
those taken at sea for research purposes in accordance with the
Schedule, those taken under the provisions of Article VII, those
confiscated under the provisions of Article VI, paragraph 5, and
those inadvertently captured which are taken possession of by a
Party; provided, however, that all. such expected skins shall be
officially marked and duly certified by the authorities of the
Party concerned.
Article IX

**1.** The respective Parties agree that, of the total number of
sealskins taken commercially each season on land, there shall at
the end of the season be delivered a percentage of the gross in
number and value thereof as follows :
By the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: to Canada, 15
per cent; to Japan, 15 per cent.
By the United States of America: to Canada, 15 per cent;
to Japan, 15 per cent.

**2.** Each Party agrees to deliver such sealskins to an authorized
agent of the recipient Party at the place of taking, or at some
other place mutually agreed upon by such Parties.

**3.** In order more equitably to divide the direct and indirect
costs of pelagic research in the Western Pacific Ocean, it is
agreed :
  * (_o_) that in any year in which commercial killing is carried out
for both the Commander and Robben Islands herds and
pelagic research in that area is carried on at a level of 2,000
or more seals :
(1) Canada and Japan will forego the delivery of the
sealskins by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Article ; and
(2) the United States of America will increase its delivery
to Canada and Japan as set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Article by a total of 375 sealskins to each of these Parties ;
(6) that in any year in which commercial killing is carried out
for one only of the Commander or Robben Islands herds and
pelagic research in that area is carried on at a level of 1,000
or more seals :
(1) Canada and Japan will forego the delivery of the
sealskins by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Article ; and
(2) the United States of America will increase its delivery
to Canada and Japan as set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Article by a total of 188 sealskins to each of these Parties.
Article X

**1.** Each Party agrees to enact and enforce such legislation as
may be necessary to guarantee the observance of this Convention
and to make effective its provisions with appropriate penalties
for violation thereof.

**2.** The Parties further agree to cooperate with each other in
taking such measures as may be appropriate to carry out the
purposes of this Convention, including the prohibition of pelagic
sealing as provided for by Article III.
Article XI
The Parties agree to meet early in the sixth year of this
Convention and, if the Convention is continued under the
provisions of Article XIII, paragraph 4, to meet again at a later
year, to consider the recommendations of the Commission made
in accordance with Article V, paragraph 2(e) and to determine
what further agreements may be desirable in order to achieve
the maximum sustainable productivity of the North Pacific fur
seal herds. The above-mentioned later year shall be fixed by the
Parties at the meeting early in the sixth year.
Article XII
Should any Party consider that the obligations of Article II,
paragraphs 3, 4, or 5 or any other obligation undertaken by the
Parties is not being carried out and notify the other Parties to
that effect, all the Parties shall, within three months of the
receipt of such notification, meet to consult together on the
need for and nature of remedial measures. In the event that
such consultation shall not lead to agreement as to the need for
and nature of remedial measures, any Party may give written
notice to the other Parties of intention to terminate the
Convention and, notwithstanding the provisions of Article XIII,
paragraph 4, the Convention shall thereupon terminate as to all
the Parties nine months from the date of such notice.
Article XIII

**1.** This Convention shall be ratified and the instruments of
ratification deposited with the Government of the United States
of America as soon as practicable.

**2.** The Government of the United States of America shall
notify the other signatory Governments of ratifications
deposited.

**3.** This Convention shall enter into force on the date of the
deposit of the fourth instrument of ratification, and upon such
entry into force Article IX, paragraphs 1 and 2, shall be deemed
to have been operative from June 1, 1956, provided that the
Parties shall have, from the date of signing, maintained under

**4.** The present Convention shall continue in force for six
and thereafter until the entry into force of a new or
fur seal convention between the Parties, or until the
expiration of one year after such period of six years, whichever
may be the earlier; provided, however, that it may continue in
force for a further period if the Parties so decide at the meeting
early in the sixth year provided for in Article XI.

**5.** The original of this Convention shall be deposited with the
Government of the United States of America, which shall
communicate certified copies thereof to each of the Governments
signatory to the Convention.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized by
their respective Governments, have signed this Convention.
Done in Washington this ninth day of February 1957, in the
English, Japanese, and Russian languages, each text equally
authentic.
[Here follow the signatures on behalf of the Governments of
Canada, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and
the United States of America.]

## SCHEDULE

**1.** The United States of America each year during the first
four years shall tag 50,000 black pups on the Pribilof Islands.

**2.** The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics each year during
the first four years shall tag 25 per cent of the black pups on
the Commander Islands and 25 per cent of the black pups on
Robben Island.

**3.** In the event that pelagic sealing should be suspended for
one or more years under the provisions of Article IV, paragraph
3, the tagging of black pups shall continue at the mentioned
rates for a comparable number of years.

**4.** The United States of America each year shall take at sea
for research purposes in the Eastern Pacific Ocean between 1,250
and 1,750 seals.

**5.** Canada each year shall take at sea for research purposes in
the Eastern Pacific Ocean between 500 and 750 seals.

**6.** Japan shall take at sea in the Western Pacific Ocean :
  * (_a_) annually in the first and second years of pelagic research
between 2,750 and 3,250 seals ;
  * (_b_) annually during the remaining four years of pelagic
research between 1,400 and 1,600 seals.

**7.** The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics shall take at sea
in the Western Pacific Ocean :
  * (_o_) annually in the first and second years of pelagic research
between 750 and 1,250 seals;
  * (_b_) annually during the remaining four years of pelagic
research between 400 and 600 seals. 1957, c. 31, Sch.
[Note: A Protocol amending the Interim Convention on
Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals was signed by "the
parties to the Interim Convention at Washington on October 8,

**1963.**]
