
# CHAPTER F-7
Act to control and regulate the sale of
feeds

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Feeds Act.
1960, c. 14, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"analyst" means a person appointed or
designated as an analyst pursuant to section
6;
"feed" means any substance or mixture of
substances containing proteins, carbohy
drates, fats, minerals, condiments or vita
mins manufactured, sold or represented for
use
  * (_a_) for consumption by livestock,
(6) for consumption by livestock in combi
nation with other materials, or
  * (_c_) for the purpose of preventing or correct
ing nutritional disorders of livestock ;
"inspector" means a person appointed or
designated as an inspector pursuant to
section 6 ;
"label" includes any legend, word, mark,
symbol or design applied or attached to,
included in, belonging to or accompanying
any feed or package ;
"livestock" means horses, cattle, sheep, goats,
swine, foxes and poultry and includes such
other animals and birds as may be desig
nated by regulation as livestock for purposes
of this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"package" includes a sack, bag, barrel, case or
any other container in which feeds are
placed or packed ;
means prescribed by regulation;
includes sell, offer for sale, expose for
sale, have in possession for sale and
distribute. 1960, c. 14, s. 2.

## REGISTRATION

**3.** No person shall sell or import into
Canada any feed unless the feed
  * (_a_) has been registered as prescribed ;
  * (_b_) conforms to prescribed standards; and
  * (_c_) is packaged and labelled as prescribed.
1960, c. 14, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Section 3 does not apply to feeds
sold by an individual grower thereof if they
are free from prescribed deleterious substances.
(2) Paragraphs 3(a) and (b) do not apply to
any feed consisting of whole seeds or grains
of cultivated farm crops. 1960, c. 14, s. 4.

## REGULATIONS

**5.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the form in which applica
tions for registration shall be made and the
information to be furnished therewith ;
  * (_b_) respecting the registration of feeds and
prescribing fees for registration ;
  * (_c_) respecting the duration and cancellation
of registration ;
  * (_d_) exempting any feed or any person from
the operation of all or any of the provisions
of this Act ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the form, composition and
other standards for feeds ;
  * (_f_) respecting the packaging and labelling
of feeds and packages thereof ;
  * (_fl_) respecting the taking of samples and
the making of analyses for the purposes of
this Act ;
  * (_h_) providing that feeds registered under
this Act and containing a control product
as defined in the Pest Control Products Act
shall, in prescribed circumstances and
subject to prescribed conditions, be deemed
to be registered under that Act ;
  * (_i_) designating specific animals and birds
as livestock for purposes of this Act ;
0) prescribing anything else that by this
Act is required to be prescribed ; and
(/c) generally, for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1960, c. 14, s. 5.

## ADMINISTRATION

**6.** (1) The inspectors and analysts neces
sary for the administration and enforcement
of this Act shall be appointed under the
Public Service Employment Act.
(2) The Minister may designate any quali
fied person as an inspector or analyst for the
purposes of this Act. 1960, c. 14, s. 6.

**7.** (1) An inspector may, at any reasonable
time,
  * (_a_) enter any place in which he reasonably
believes there is any feed to which this Act
applies and may open any package found
therein that he has reason to believe
contains any such feed and may examine it
and take samples thereof ; and
(6) require any person to produce for
inspection or for the purpose of obtaining
copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any
books, shipping bills, bills of lading,
documents containing mixing instructions,
or other documents or papers with respect
to the administration of this Act or the
regulations.
subsection (1) shall, if so required, produce
the certificate to the person in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of any
place described in subsection (1) and every
person found therein shall give an inspector
all reasonable assistance in his power to
enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and shall furnish
him with such information with respect to the
administration of this Act and the regulations
as he may reasonably require. 1960, c. 14, s. 7.

**8.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that this Act has been
violated, he may seize the articles by means
of or in relation to which he reasonably
believes the violation was committed.
(2) Any article seized pursuant to subsection
(1) shall not be detained after
  * (_a_) the provisions of this Act and the
regulations have, in the opinion of the
inspector, been complied with, or
  * (_b_) the expiration of six months from the
day of seizure,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation, in which
event the article may be detained until the
proceedings are finally concluded.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of
an offence under this Act, every article by
means of or in relation to which the offence
was committed is, upon the conviction, in
addition to any penalty imposed, forfeited to
Her Majesty.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the detention of anything
seized under this section and for preserving
or safeguarding anything so detained, and
  * (_b_) respecting the disposition of anything
forfeited under this section. 1960, c. 14, s. 8.

**9.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
inspector in the carrying out of his duties
functions under this Act.
(2) N O person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector or other officer engaged
in carrying out his duties or functions under
this Act. 1960, c. 14, s. 9.

## OFFENCE AND PENALTY

**10.** (1) Every person who, or whose
employee or agent, has violated any provision
of this Act or any regulation made under
subsection 8(4) is guilty of an offence and is
liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both, or
(6) upon conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year, or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for an offence under
this Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence.
(3) j\j proceedings by way of summary
conviction in respect of an offence under this
Act shall be instituted more than one year
after the time when the subject-matter of the
proceedings arose. 1960, c. 14, s. 10.

## EVIDENCE

**11.** (1) A certificate of an analyst stating
that he has examined a substance or a sample
submitted to him by an inspector and stating
the result of his examination is admissible in
evidence in a prosecution for an offence under
this Act, and in the absence of any evidence
to the contrary is proof of the statement of
analysis contained in the certificate.
(2) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, a document purporting to be the
evidence without proof of the signature of the
person by whom it purports to be signed and
without proof of his official position. 1960, c.
14, s. 11.

**12.** A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1960, c. 14, s. 12.
