
# CHAPTER F-8
An Act respecting public ferries

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Ferries Act.
R.S., c. 114, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" means the Canadian Transport
Commission ;
"ferry" means any ferry between Canada and
any other country, or between any two
provinces ;
"licence" or "renewal" includes all ferry
licences or renewals thereof ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport.
R.S., c. 114, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 95.
APPLICATION

**3.** Nothing in this Act extends to the owner
or master of any vessel plying between two
ports in Canada or regularly entered or
cleared by the officers of Her Majesty s
customs at any such port, or, in any way,
affects any privilege in respect to ferries
granted before the 1st day of March 1887 to
the proprietor of any bridge or to any railway
or other company by the Parliament of
Canada, or by the legislature of any of the
provinces then composing Canada, before
such province became a part of Canada. R.S.,
c. 114,s.3.
LICENCES

**4.** Every licence of ferry shall be under the
Great Seal and shall be issued by the Governor
in Council. R.S., c. 114, s. 4.

**5.** (1) Whenever any ferry, other than a
ferry between Canada and any other country,
is established or becomes vacant the Commis
sion shall offer the licence or renewal of
licence for such ferry to public competition,
and for that purpose give notice in the
English and French languages in the Canada
Gazette, and in one or more newspapers
published or circulated in the locality in
which the ferry is situated, of the time and
place at which tenders will be received for the
licence or renewal of licence for such ferry.
(2) The Commission shall report the result
of such competition to the Governor in
Council, and the licence or renewal thereof
shall be granted accordingly. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**95.**

**6.** (1) In the case of a ferry between Canada
and an y other country, the Governor in
Council may authorize a ferry licence to be
granted or to be renewed for any period not
exceeding ten years, as the exigencies of the
case require.
(2) Every such licence is liable to cancella
tion for any violation of the customs laws of
Canada or of the country between which and
Canada the ferry is established, and for any
violation of the regulations made by the
Governor in Council, as hereinafter provided.
(3) In the case of a ferry between any two
provinces, a ferry licence may be granted,
after public competition as hereinbefore
provided, for any period not exceeding five
years.
(4) The Governor in Council, if he is
satisfied that the regulations hereinafter
mentioned have been complied with and the
public requirements met, may in any case,
without calling for tenders as aforesaid,
authorize the extension of the licence for an
additional period of five years upon such
terms as are set forth in the order in council.
R.S., c. 114,s.6.
  * (_a_) establishing the extent and limit of all
or any such ferries as aforesaid ;
(6) defining the manner in which, the
conditions, including any duty or sum to
be paid for the licence, under which, and
the period for which, licences shall be
granted in respect of such ferries or any one
or more of them ;
  * (_c_) determining the size and description of
the vessels to be used on any such ferries
by the persons holding licences in respect
thereof, and the nature of the accommoda
tion and conveniences to be provided for
passengers carried in such vessels ;
  * (_d_) fixing the tolls or rates at which persons
and chattels shall be carried over such
ferries, and the manner and places at which
such tolls or rates shall be published or
made known ;
  * (_e_) enforcing the payment of such tolls or
rates by the persons carried or for whom
chattels are carried over such ferries ;
(/) regulating the conduct of persons hold
ing licences in respect of such ferries, and
fixing the times and hours and parts of
hours during and at which vessels employed
on such ferries shall cross and recross or
depart from either side of any such ferry
for that purpose ;
  * (_g_) annulling and declaring the forfeiture
of any ferry licence, in consequence of the
conditions thereof or any of them not
having been fulfilled, or in consequence of
such licence having been obtained by fraud
or misrepresentation or through error; and
  * (_h_) imposing penalties, not exceeding a fine
of ten dollars in any case, for the violation
of any such regulation. R.S., c. 114, s. 7.
INQUIRIES

**8.** The Commission shall, upon request of
on any matter connected with any
or ferry licence. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 95.
PENALTIES

**9.** Every person who interferes with the
rights of any licensed ferryman by conveying
passengers or goods for hire or profit or with
the intention of lessening the tolls or revenue
of any ferry, within the limits assigned to
such ferryman by the Crown, shall, upon
conviction thereof before a justice of the
peace for the county, city or district in which
either terminus of the ferry is situated incur
a fine not exceeding twenty dollars. R.S., c.
114, s. 10.

## APPROPRIATION OF PENALTIES AND LICENCE
FEES

**10.** (1) All fines imposed by this Act, or by
any regulations under the authority thereof,
are recoverable in a summary manner before
a justice of the peace.
(2) One moiety of every such fine shall be
paid to the informer, and the other moiety
belongs to the Crown. R.S., c. 114, s. 11.

**11.** All moneys arising out of such ferry
licences, and out of fines and penalties
incurred in regard to the same, or otherwise,
under this Act, form part of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 114, s. 12.
