
# CHAPTER F-9
An Act for the regulation and control of
agricultural fertilizers

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Fertilizers
Act. 1957, c. 27, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"analyst" means a person appointed or
designated as an analyst pursuant to section
5;
"fertilizer" means any substance or mixture
of substances containing nitrogen, phos
phorous, potassium or other plant food,
manufactured, sold or represented for use
as a plant nutrient ;
"inspector" means a person appointed or
designated as an inspector pursuant to
section 5 ;
"label" includes any legend, word, mark,
symbol or design applied or attached to,
included in, belonging to or accompanying
any fertilizer, supplement or package ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"package" includes a sack, bag, barrel, case or
any other container in which fertilizers or
supplements are placed or packed ;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation;
"sell" includes sell, offer for sale, expose for
sale, have in possession for sale and
distribute ;
"supplement" means any substance or mixture
of substances, other than a fertilizer,
manufactured, sold or represented for use
in the improvement of the physical condi*
tion of soils or to aid plant growth or crop
yields. 1957, c. 27, s. 2.

## REGISTRATION

**3.** No person shall sell, or import into
Canada, any fertilizer or supplement unless
the fertilizer or supplement has been registered
as prescribed, conforms to prescribed standards
and is packaged and labelled as prescribed.
1957, c. 27, s. 3.

## REGULATIONS

**4.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) for prescribing the form in which
applications for registration shall be made
and the information to be furnished
therewith ;
6) respecting the registration of fertilizers
and supplements and prescribing fees for
registration ;
  * (_c_) respecting the duration and cancellation
of registration ;
  * (_d_) for exempting any fertilizer or supple
ment or any person from the operation of
all or any of the provisions of this Act ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the form, composition and
other standards for fertilizers and supple
ments;
(/) respecting the packaging and labelling
of fertilizers and supplements and packages
thereof ;
  * (_gf_) respecting the taking of samples and
the making of analyses for the purposes of
this Act ;
  * (_h_) providing that fertilizers registered
under this Act and containing a control
stances and subject to prescribed conditions,
be deemed to be registered under that Act ;
  * (_i_) prescribing anything else that by this
Act is required to be prescribed ; and
0) generally, for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1957, c. 27, s. 4.

## ADMINISTRATION

**5.** (1) The inspectors and analysts neces
sary for the administration and enforcement
of this Act shall be appointed under the
Public Service Employment Act.
(2) The Minister may designate any person
as an inspector or analyst for the purposes of
this Act. 1957, c. 27, s. 5.

**6.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
time enter any place in which he reasonably
believes there is any article to which this Act
applies and may open any package found
therein that he has reason to believe contains
any such article and may examine it and take
samples thereof.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
prescribed certificate of his appointment or
designation and on entering any place under
subsection (1) shall, if so required, produce
the certificate to the persons in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or persons in charge of any
place described in subsection (1) and every
person found therein shall give an inspector
all reasonable assistance in his power to
enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and shall furnish
him with such information with respect to the
administration of this Act and the regulations
as he may reasonably require. 1957, c. 27, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that this Act has been
violated, he may seize the articles by means
of or in relation to which he reasonably
believes the violation was committed.
(2) Any article seized pursuant to subsection
(1) shall not be detained after
  * (_a_) the provisions of this Act and the
regulations have, in the opinion of the
inspector, been complied with, or
(6) the expiration of six months from the
day of seizure,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation, in which
event the article may be detained until the
proceedings are finally concluded.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of
an offence under this Act, every article by
means of or in relation to which the offence
was committed is, upon the conviction, in
addition to any penalty imposed, forfeited to
Her Majesty, if such forfeiture is directed by
the court.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the detention of anything
seized under this section and for preserving
or safeguarding anything so detained, and
(6) respecting the disposition of anything
forfeited under this section. 1957, c. 27, s. 7.

**8.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector in the carrying out of his duties
or functions under this Act.
(2) No person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector or other officer engaged
in carrying out his duties or functions under
this Act. 1957, c. 27, s. 8.
PROHIBITIONS

**9.** No person shall sell any fertilizer or
supplement that contains destructive ingredi
ents or properties harmful to plant growth
when used according to the directions accom
panying the fertilizer or supplement or
appearing on the label of the package in
which the fertilizer or supplement is contained.
1957, c. 27, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Every person who, or whose
employee or agent, has violated any provision
of this Act or any regulation made under
subsection 7(4) is guilty of an offence and is
liable
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both, or
  * (_b_) upon conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year, or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for an offence under
this Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence. 1957, c. 27,
s. 10.

## EVIDENCE

**11.** A certificate of an analyst stating that
he has analyzed or examined a substance or
a sample submitted to him by an inspector
and stating the result of his examination is
evidence in a prosecution for an offence under
this Act of the statement of analysis contained
in the certificate. 1957, c. 27, s. 11.
J2. A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1957, c. 27, s. 12.
