General s Act. R.S., c. 139, s. 1.

**2.** The Governor General for the time
being of Canada, or other chief executive
officer or administrator for the time being
carrying on the Government of Canada on
behalf and in the name of the Sovereign, by
whatever title he is designated, and his
successors, is a corporation sole. R.S., c. 139,
s. 2.

**3.** (1) All bonds, recognizances and other
instruments by law required to be taken to
the Governor General in his public capacity,
shall be taken to him and his successors by
his name of office, and may be sued for and
recovered by him or his successors by his or
their name of office as such.
(2) Such bonds, recognizances or other
instruments shall however in no case go to or
vest in the personal representatives of the
Governor General, chief executive officer or
administrator of the Government in whose
name they were so taken. R.S., c. 139, s. 3.

**4.** (1) There shall be payable yearly, and
pro rata for any period less than a year, to
the Governor General for the time being of
Canada, a salary of forty-eight thousand six
hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-three
cents.
(2) Such salary is payable out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, and forms the
second charge thereon. R.S., c. 139, s. 4.
