General s Retiring Annuity Act. 1966-67, c. 81,
s. 1.

**2.** (1) Where at any time after the 9th day
of March 1967 a Governor General of Canada
ceases to hold office as such, there shall be
paid to him an annuity equal to one-third of
the salary annexed to the office of Governor
General at the time he so ceases to hold
office.
(2) An annuity payable under this section
shall commence on the day the annuitant
ceases to hold the office of Governor General
and shall continue thereafter during his
natural life. 1966-67, c. 81, s. 2.

**3.** (1) Where a person who is in receipt of
an annuity under section 2 dies, there shall
be paid to his widow, if she was his wife at
the time he ceased to hold the office of
Governor General, an annuity equal to one-
half of the annuity that was being paid to
her husband.
(2) When a Governor General dies while
holding office as such, there shall be paid to
his widow an annuity equal to one-sixth of
the salary annexed to the office of Governor
General at the time of his death.
(3) An annuity payable to a widow under
this section shall commence immediately after
the death of her husband and shall continue
during her natural life. 1966-67, c.

**4.** (1) There shall be paid to a person who
before the 10th day of March 1967 ceased to
hold the office of Governor General of
Canada, an annuity equal to one-third of the
salary annexed to the office of Governor
General on the 10th day of March 1967.
(2) There shall be paid to the widow of a
person who before the 10th day of March 1967
ceased to hold the office of Governor General
of Canada and died, if she was his wife at the
time he ceased to hold such office, an annuity
equal to one-sixth of the salary annexed to
the office of Governor General on the 10th
day of March 1967.
(3) Subsections 3(1) and (3) apply in the
case of the death of a person who at the time
of his death is in receipt of an annuity under
subsection (1) of this section.
(4) An annuity payable under subsection
(1) or (2) of this section shall commence on
the 10th day of March 1967 and shall continue
thereafter during the natural life of the
annuitant. 1966-67, c. 81, s. 4.

**5.** An annuity payable under this Act shall
be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund by monthly instalments, and for any
period less than a month shall be paid pro
rata. 1966-67, c. 81, s. 5.

**6.** The payment of an annuity under this
Act shall not affect or be affected by the
payment of any pension, annuity or other
benefit under any other Act of the Parliament
of Canada. 1966-67, c. 81, s. 6.
