
# CHAPTER G-2
An Act respecting the inspection of gas and
gas meters

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Gas
Inspection Act. U.S., c. 129, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
contractor" means any company or person
agreeing to furnish gas to any purchaser ;
Department" means the Department of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs ;
gas" includes natural as well as manufactured
gas;
inspector" means any officer appointed
under the authority of this Act ;
meter" means gas meter, and includes every
kind of machine, apparatus or instrument
used for measuring the quantity of gas or
the calorific power of gas supplied to a
purchaser ;
Minister" means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs ;
purchaser" means any person to whom gas
is sold ;
verified meter" means a meter that has been
verified and sealed in accordance with this
Act and the regulations. R.S., c. 129, s. 2;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 104.

## REGULATIONS

**3.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations, not inconsistent with this
  * (_a_) for determining the calorific power of
gas and establishing standards therefor ;
(6) for defining the methods of making the
tests prescribed by this Act and the places
where such tests shall be made, and for
defining territorial districts ;
  * (_c_) for declaring the true intent and mean
ing of this Act in all cases of doubt ;
  * (_d_) for prescribing how the units of measure
mentioned in this Act shall be determined ;
  * (_e_) to provide for the custody of any
apparatus, stamps or supplies used or
required for the purposes of this Act or the
regulations ;
(/) to prescribe the duties of officers appoint
ed for the purposes of this Act ; and
  * (_g_) as to pressure under which gas is to be
supplied. R.S., c. 129, s. 3.

## UNITS AND STANDARDS

**4.** (j) The unit of measure for the sale of
gas by quantity is the cubic foot.
(2) The unit of measure for the sale of gas
by heat units is the British Thermal Unit.
(3) The standard apparatus necessary to
establish the said units shall be deposited and
maintained in the Standards Laboratory of
the Department, and forms part of the system
of standards of measure and weight established
by the Weights and Measures Act. R.S., c. 129,
s. 4.

## REGISTRATION

**5.** (1) Every contractor supplying gas to
any purchaser shall obtain from the Minister
a certificate of registration for his system.
(2) A certificate of registration expires on
the 31st day of March in each year. R.S., c.
129, s. 5.

## CONTRACTOR S RIGHTS

**6.** (1) The contractor may at all reasonable
enter the premises of any purchaser to
he may be or has been supplying gas,
for the purpose of
  * (_a_) inspecting and testing all piping, fittings
or apparatus for the conveyance, measure
ment or consumption of gas ;
  * (_b_) ascertaining the quantity of gas con
sumed or supplied ; and
  * (_c_) changing or removing when lawfully
entitled to do so, any piping, fittings,
meters or other apparatus belonging to the
contractor.
(2) The contractor is responsible for, and
shall immediately repair and make good, all
damage caused by such entry, inspection,
testing or removal. R.S., c. 129, s. 6.

## PRESSURE

**7.** The contractor shall from time to time
report to the Minister what the minimum
service pressure is, and shall provide, free of
charge, gas and piping and all other reasonable
facilities at such place or places as the Minister
may designate, for making such tests of gas
and meters and other apparatus as the
Minister may deem necessary for the purposes
of this Act. R.S.,c. 129, s. 7.

## DIRECTOR AND OFFICERS

**8.** (1) There may be appointed for the
purposes of this Act a director, together with
such assistants as may be deemed necessary.
(2) The director has the direction and
general supervision of the work of gas and
gas meter inspection throughout Canada, and
shall have the custody of all the standards
for gas measurements and of all laboratory
equipment.
(3) In each gas inspection district in Canada
a district inspector may be appointed with
such assistants as may from time to time be
found necessary, who shall
  * (_a_) have the custody of all measuring,
testing, and sealing apparatus, and all
stamps and supplies furnished for use in his
district ;
  * (_b_) be responsible for the general inspection
work of his district ; and
  * (_c_) perform such other related duties as
may from time to time be assigned to him
by the Minister.
(4) An officer appointed under this Act
may at all reasonable times enter any premises
where gas is being manufactured, distributed
from or used, for the purpose of performing
any duty imposed upon him by this Act.
(5) No person shall be employed or appoint
ed under this section either temporarily or
permanently until he has passed a qualifying
technical examination, which examination
shall be held as provided by law.
(6) No person shall be appointed under this
section, or shall act as an officer under this
Act or the regulations, who is a seller of gas
or gas meters, or who is employed by a seller
of gas or gas meters. R.S., c. 129, s. 8.

## METERS

**9.** (1) The quantity of gas supplied by any
contractor to any purchaser shall, if either
party so desires, be ascertained by means of a
meter.
(2) When gas is sold by heat units the
quantity of such units per cubic foot of gas
supplied shall be ascertained by means of an
approved calorimeter, to be used under such
conditions and in such locations as may be
determined by the regulations.
(3) No meter shall be installed for use until
it has been duly verified and sealed in
accordance with the regulations established
under the authority of this Act.
(4) No meter shall be admitted to verifica
tion in Canada until the type of meter to
which it belongs has received the approval of
the Minister.
(5) Within six years, or such other period
as the Governor in Council in any case or
class of cases may prescribe, from each
verification and sealing, every meter shall be
presented by the owner for re verification and
resealing, or for the cancellation of the seal,
by an inspector.
(6) No meter shall be verified or sealed by
any person who is not an inspector, and no
person other than an inspector shall break the
of any verified meter the correctness of
which is in dispute, or not being an inspector
or the owner, shall break the seal of any
verified meter; and no meter on which the
seal has been broken shall be continued in use
until it has been re verified and resealed.
(7) In every case the owner shall keep every
verified meter that is in use in good repair
and he is responsible for the due inspection
and testing thereof; and, except as herein
otherwise provided, the owner shall pay the
fee lawfully chargeable for such inspection
and is liable for all penalties incurred with
respect to such meter.
(8) The owner shall keep a record of all
meters in his possession, giving their location
and all tests made thereon, which record shall
be open to the inspector during business hours
and from which the inspector may make such
extract copies as he may require.
(9) The contractor shall notify the district
inspector without delay of any change of
location of any verified meter from one
inspection district to another, and also of the
number mark or other description of any
verified meter that may be sold, scrapped,
destroyed, burnt or lost. R.S., c. 129, s. 9.

## DISPUTED TESTS

**10.** (1) If at any time the contractor or
purchaser is dissatisfied with the condition or
registration of any meter, the inspector shall,
at the request of the contractor or purchaser
and upon his depositing with such inspector
the prescribed fee, make such tests as are
necessary to show the condition of the meter.
(2) Tests made under the circumstances
described in subsection (1) shall be designated
disputed tests.
(3) Disputed meters found to be correct
shall not be restamped, but may be continued
in service for the unexpired period indicated
by the date on the seal that was on the meter
immediately before the disputed test.
the result of the disputed test, and shall give
a duplicate thereof to the opposite party ; the
cost of such certificate shall be borne by the
party against whom the decision is given.
(5) If either the contractor or the purchaser
is dissatisfied with the finding of any
inspector, the inspector shall, if so requested
in writing by such dissatisfied party, refer the
matter to the director, and the decision of the
director thereon is final and conclusive.
(6) If on a disputed test the meter is found
to register with an error greater than that
permitted by the regulations, the error shall
be held to have existed for a period of three
months, or from the date on which the meter
was last sealed if the sealing took place within
three calendar months prior to the disputed
test, or in the event of the meter being more
than three months past due for reverification,
then from the date on which it should have
been reverified, and the contractor or the
purchaser, as the case may be, is entitled to
the amount represented by the full error of
the meter.
(7) The owner of any verified meter may
have it retested upon paying the prescribed
fee, and has the like right to appeal to the
director that a contractor or purchaser has.
R.S., c. 129, s. 10.
FEES

**11.** (1) All fees connected with the testing
of gas and gas meters shall be determined
from time to time by the Governor in Council.
(2) The fees shall be regulated so that they
will, as nearly as may be, meet the cost of
carrying this Act into effect, and all fees
received under this Act shall be accounted for
and paid to the Receiver General at such
times and in such manner as the Receiver
General directs.
(3) All fees are due and payable at the time
the verifications are made, and shall be paid
the certificate is issued.
(4) An indication of the payment of the fee
in respect of a certificate shall be made in the
certificate or in such other manner as the
Governor in Council may prescribe. R.S., c.
129,s. 11; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

## ACCOUNTS

**12.** Separate accounts shall be kept of all
expenditure incurred and of all fees and
penalties collected and received under the
authority of this Act. R.S., c. 129, s. 12.

## PENALTIES

**13.** Every contractor who refuses or neglects
to obtain, within thirty days after the 1st day
of April in each year, the certificate of
registration required by this Act, is liable to
a penalty of ten dollars for each day during
which such refusal or neglect continues. R.S.,
c. 129, s. 13.

**14.** (1) Every person who, except under
the authority of this Act,
  * (_a_) makes, causes or procures to be made,
or assists in making,
  * (_b_) forges or counterfeits, or causes or
procures to be forged or counterfeited, or
  * (_c_) assists in forging or counterfeiting
any stamp, mark or seal issued for the
stamping, marking or sealing of any meter
under this Act, or any certificate required by
this Act, is guilty of forgery, and shall be
punished accordingly, and every one who
steals any such stamp or seal is guilty of
theft.
(2) Every person who knowingly sells, utters
or disposes of, lets, uses, lends or exposes for
sale, any meter with such forged stamp or
mark thereon is for every such offence liable
to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars
and not less than twenty dollars.
(3) All meters having on them such forged
or counterfeited stamps or marks shall be
forfeited to Her Majesty, and shall be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the
Minister may direct. R.S., c. 129, s. 14.

**15.** (1) Every person who
  * (_a_) repairs or alters, or causes to be repaired
or altered, tampers with or does any other
act in relation to any verified meter so as
to cause such meter to register unjustly ;
  * (_b_) prevents or refuses lawful access to any
meter in his possession or control ; or
  * (_c_) obstructs or hinders any examination or
testing authorized by this Act ;
is liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars and not less than fifty dollars, and is
also liable to pay the expense of and fees for
removing and testing the meter and the
expense of purchasing and installing a new
meter.
(2) The payment of any such penalty as
aforesaid does not exempt the person paying
it from liability for any punishment to which
he may otherwise be liable upon indictment
or other proceeding, or deprive any person of
the right to recover damages against such
person for any loss or injury sustained in
consequence of such act or default. R.S., c.
129, s. 15.

**16.** Every contractor who fails to keep the
records required by this Act, or who refuses to
allow an inspector to examine such records
and to take such extracts therefrom as he may
deem necessary, is liable to a fine of not less
than five dollars and not more than fifty
dollars. R.S., c. 129, s. 16.

**17.** Every person who
  * (_a_) installs or causes to be installed in any
purchaser s service any meter that has not
been verified and sealed as herein required ;
(6) refuses or neglects to present any meter
installed in any purchaser s service for
reverification or resealing within six years
after the preceding verification and sealing ;
  * (_c_) being a contractor, permits any such
meter to continue in service beyond the
said six years, or refuses or neglects to
present any meter that has been verified
and sealed for the cancellation of such seal
immediately after the expiry of six years
after it has been so verified and sealed ;
  * (_d_) not being an inspector, verifies or seals
the accuracy of which is in dispute, or not
being an owner or inspector, breaks or causes
to be broken the seal of any other verified
meter ;
is liable to a fine of twenty-five dollars for
each meter with respect to which any of the
offences under this section have been com
mitted. R.S., c. 129, s. 17.

**18.** Any contractor selling gas by heat
units who supplies gas below the standard
calorific power prescribed by regulation is
liable,
  * (_a_) if the contractor has more than ten
thousand verified meters, to a fine not
exceeding eighty dollars for the first offence
and double that fine for each subsequent
offence ;
  * (_b_) if the contractor has more than five
thousand and not more than ten thousand
verified meters, to a fine not exceeding
sixty dollars for the first offence and double
that fine for every subsequent offence ;
  * (_c_) if the contractor has more than two
thousand and not more than five thousand
verified meters, to a fine of forty dollars
for the first offence, and double that fine
for every subsequent offence ;
  * (_d_) if the contractor has more than one
thousand and not more than two thousand
verified meters, to a fine of twenty dollars
for the first offence and double that fine
for every subsequent offence ; or
  * (_e_) if the contractor has one thousand
verified meters, or less, to a fine of ten
dollars for the first offence and double that
fine for every subsequent offence. R.S., c.
129, s. 18.

**19.** Any contractor who supplies any
purchaser with manufactured gas containing
any trace of sulphuretted hydrogen (H^S) is
liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars and not less than twenty-five dollars.
R.S., c. 129, s. 19.

**20.** Every person who violates any of the
of this Act or the regulations, or
refuses or neglects to perform any duty
imposed by this Act or the regulations, for
which violation no fine is specifically herein
provided, is liable to a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars and not more than one
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 129, s. 20.
2 1. All fines imposed under the authority
of this Act or the regulations are recoverable
on summary conviction, with costs,
  * (_a_) before any justice of the peace for the
district, county or place in which the offence
was committed if the fine does not exceed
twenty-five dollars, or
(6) before any two justices of the peace, if
the fine exceeds twenty-five dollars. R.S.,
c. 129,s.21.
