
# CHAPTER G-7
An Act respecting the operation of Govern-
ment companies

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Government
Companies Operation Act. R.S., c. 133, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Company" means a company incorporated
under Part I of the Canada Corporations
Act, all the issued shares of capital stock of
which are owned by or held in trust for Her
Majesty in right of Canada, except shares
necessary to qualify other persons as
directors ;
"Minister" means, in relation to each Com
pany, the Minister who has direction or
control of the affairs of the Company. R.S.,
c. 133,s.2.

**3.** (1) Every Company is for all its purposes
an agent of Her Majesty and its powers may
be exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) Every Company may on behalf of Her
Majesty contract in its corporate name without
specific reference to Her Majesty.
(3) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by a Company on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Company in the name of the
Company in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the Company were not an agent
of Her Majesty. R.S, c. 133, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Every Company may, notwithstand-
any statute or law, employ such officers
servants as it deems necessary to conduct
its operations and may determine their
conditions of employment and their remuner
ation which shall be paid by the Company.
(2) Every Company has the control and
supervision of the officers and servants
employed by the Company. R.S., c. 133, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Public Service Superannuation
Act does not apply to officers and servants
employed by a Company but each Company
may with the approval of the Governor in
Council establish and support a pension fund
or group insurance plan or other pension or
superannuation arrangements for the benefit
of officers and servants employed by the
Company and their dependants and a
Company may, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, continue any such fund,
plan or arrangement established by the
Company at the time this Act comes into
force.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) or any
other statute or law, a person who, immedi
ately prior to his employment by any
Company was a contributor under the Civil
Service Superannuation Act or the Public
Service Superannuation Act, continues while
employed by the Company to be a contributor
under the Public Service Superannuation Act;
and for the purposes of that Act, his service
with the Company shall be counted as
pensionable service ; and in the event of his
being retired from employment with such
Company for any reason other than that of
misconduct, he is eligible for re-appointment
in the Public Service.
(3) Any person who at the time of his
employment with any Company held a
position in the civil service or was an employee
within the meaning of the Civil Service Act or
the Public Service Employment Act continues
to retain and is eligible for all the benefits,
except salary as an employee in the Public
Service, that he would have been eligible to
receive had he remained an employee in the
Public Service.
(4) The Government Employees Compensa
tion Act applies to officer? and servants of a
Company and for the purposes of that Act
such officers and servants shall be deemed to
be employees in the public service of Canada.
(5) Subsection (2) does not apply in respect
of any person who becomes employed by a
Company on or after the 1st day of January
1954 to whom, but for this subsection,
subsection (2) would apply, and every such
person is deemed, for the purposes of the
Public Service Superannuation Act. to have
ceased to be employed in the Public Service,
for a reason other than disability or miscon
duct, as of the date of his employment as
aforesaid, and to have ceased to be a
contributor under the Public Service Superan
nuation Act as of that date. R.S., c. 133, s. 5;
1953-54, c. 44, s. 3.

**6.** This Act applies to a Company only
from the date of the issue of a proclamation
by the Governor in Council declaring this Act
to be applicable to such Company. R.S., c.
133, s. 6.

**7.** The Governor in Council may issue a
proclamation declaring that this Act shall
cease to apply to a Company in respect of
which a proclamation has been issued pursuant
to section 6 and, upon the effective date of
the proclamation, this Act ceases to apply to
the Company and the Company ceases to be
an agent of Her Majesty but without prejudice
to any rights acquired by any person pursuant
to subsection 5(2) or (3). 1968-69, c. 28, s. 96.
