
# CHAPTER G-9
An Act respecting Government harbours, piers
and breakwaters

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Government
Harbours and Piers Act. R.S., c. 135, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Transport. R.S., c. 135, s. 2.
APPLICATION

**3.** Nothing in this Act applies to any
harbour under the administration, manage
ment and control of the National Harbours
Board or of any commissioners appointed
under any Act of the Parliament of Canada.
R.S., c. 135, s. 3.

## WORKS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE
MINISTER

**4.** Except such wharfs, piers and breakwa
ters as are on or connected with canals, the
use, maintenance and ordinary repairs of all
harbours, wharfs, piers and breakwaters
constructed or completed at the expense of
Canada, or in any way the property of
Canada, and the making and enforcing of
regulations concerning such use, maintenance
and ordinary repairs, and the collection of
tolls and dues for such use, are under the
control and management of the Minister.
R.S., c. 135, s. 4.

**5.** Such construction and repairs and the
connected therewith, other than mainte
nance and ordinary repairs, are under the
and direction of the Minister of Public
R.S..C. 135, s. 5.

## POWERS OF MINISTER AND THE GOVERNOR IN

## COUNCIL

**6.** (1) The Minister may appoint such
officers, clerks, employees or labourers as he
may think proper for the operation, adminis
tration and management of the works placed
by this Act under his administration, man
agement and control or may designate such
existing officers, clerks, employees or labourers
of the Department of Transport as he may
think fit for that purpose, and the officers,
clerks, employees and labourers so appointed
or designated shall perform such duties or
functions in connection with the management
and control of such works, and the collection
of tolls and dues to be paid in respect thereof
as the Minister may direct.
(2) The Governor in Council may determine
the remuneration to be allowed respectively
to such officers, clerks, employees and labour
ers, and the amounts of such remuneration
and such expenses as may be authorized by
the Minister for lighting, heating or otherwise
making serviceable each of such works may,
notwithstanding anything in the Financial
Administration Act, be retained from the tolls
and dues collected thereon. R.S., c. 135, s. 6.

**7.** The Governor in Council may, on the
recommendation of the Minister, make rules
and regulations for the use and management
of the harbours, wharfs, piers and breakwaters
mentioned in this Act, and a tariff or tariffs
of the tolls and dues to be paid for their use
and levied on persons or vessels using them,
and on goods, wares or merchandise landed
or shipped on or from off them ; and may, by
such rules and regulations, impose penalties
not exceeding two hundred dollars, and
punishment by imprisonment not exceeding
sixty days, for any violation thereof. R.S., c.
135, s. 7.
detain such vessel or goods until they
are paid. R.S., c. 135, s. 8.

**9.** No vessel leaving any port at which any
such tolls or dues are payable shall receive a
clearance at the custom-house thereat, unless
the master produces to the collector or proper
officer of the customs a certificate that the
tolls or dues on such vessel have been paid,
or that none are payable thereon. R.S., c. 135,
s. 9.

**10.** If any vessel leaves any port without
paying any such tolls or dues, it may be
detained at any other port at which it calls
until such tolls or dues are paid. R.S., c. 135,
s. 10.

## COLLECTION OF TOLLS

**11.** (1) If any tolls or dues imposed and
payable on any goods under this Act by any
regulation remain unpaid during four weeks
after they are due, the officer or person to
whom they are payable may apply to any
justice of the peace for an order to levy the
same.
(2) An application under subsection (1)
shall be accompanied by the oath or solemn
affirmation of the applicant, made before
such justice, that such tolls or dues, stating
the amount thereof, are due on such goods,
describing them sufficiently to identify them,
and have remained unpaid during twenty-
eight days or more, as the case may be.
(3) Upon receiving an application under
subsection (1) accompanied by the prescribed
oath or affirmation, the justice shall issue his
warrant to some constable commanding him
to sell such goods or so much thereof as is
sufficient to pay the sum due, with reasonable
costs, not exceeding five dollars, which such
constable shall accordingly do, and shall pay
over the amount made, less the costs, to the
officer or person authorized to collect such
tolls or dues. R.S., c. 135, s. 11.

**12.** (1) All tolls and dues payable under
Act or under any rule or regulation
a debt due and payable to Her
Majestj- jointly and severally
  * (_a_) by the owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise in respect of which such dues
or tolls are payable, and the consignee or
person to whom such goods, wares or
merchandise are delivered or who is in
charge of them, or
  * (_b_) in the case of a vessel, by the owner,
master and agent of such vessel.
(2) In the case of a person using a harbour,
wharf, pier or breakwater, the tolls and dues
are payable by such person.
(3) The debt may, at any time, be recovered
with full costs of suit in any court of
competent jurisdiction. R.S., c. 135, s. 12.

**13.** After deducting the remuneration to
officers, clerks, employees and labourers
hereinbefore mentioned and the expenses of
lighting, heating, or otherwise making ser
viceable such works, the remainder, if any, of
all tolls and dues received under this Act shall
be paid over to the Minister of Finance at
such times and in such manner as the
Governor in Council directs ; and an account
thereof shall be rendered to the Minister at
such times and in such manner as the Minister
directs. R.S., c. 135, s. 13.

**14.** An account of all such moneys and of
all expenditure incurred in the collection
thereof, or otherwise under this Act, shall be
laid before Parliament at the session next
after the close of the fiscal year in which such
moneys have been received and such expen
diture has been incurred. R.S., c. 135, s. 14.

## RECOVERY AND DISPOSAL OF PENALTIES

**15.** All pecuniary penalties imposed under
this Act may be recovered with costs by
summary conviction, under the provisions of
the Criminal Code relating to summary
convictions and belong to Her Majesty for
the public uses of Canada. R.S., c. 135, s. 15.

## GENERAL

**16.** (1) Where the Minister deems it desir
able to lease to any provincial government,
municipal council, harbour commission, ship
ping company, or railway company any
wharf, pier or breakwater under the control of
the Minister, tenders by public advertisement
for such lease shall be invited by the Minister
for a term not exceeding three years, and the
Governor in Council may thereupon lease
such wharf, pier or breakwater upon such
terms and conditions as are agreed upon.
(2) Nothing in this section interferes with
the public use of such wharf, pier or
breakwater.
(3) The lessee of such wharf, pier or
breakwater shall not charge wharfage tolls or
dues in excess of the tolls and dues established
under the authority of this Act by the
regulations for the government of breakwaters,
piers or wharfs in Canada as approved from
time to time by the Governor in Council.
R.S.,c. 135,s. 16.

**17.** The Minister may enter into an
agreement, for a term not exceeding three
years, with any person, for the payment of a
fixed amount yearly for the use of any wharf,
pier or breakwater under his control, in lieu
of the tolls and dues leviable for such use in
accordance with the rules and regulations
made under the authority of this Act, on the
vessels and merchandise belonging to or
carried by such person. R.S., c. 135, s. 17.

**18.** The Minister shall lay before Parlia
ment, within one month after the opening of
the then next session, a statement of all leases
made under this Act and the conditions of
such leases. R.S., c. 135, s. 18.

**19.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to impair, affect or avoid
  * (_a_) any of the powers or duties of the
Minister of Public Works under the Public
Works Act, in respect of the construction,
improvement , repair or maintenance of the
works mentioned in this Act ;
  * (_b_) the power of the Governor in Council
to make regulations for the proper use of
such works, concerning their safety and
protection from injury, and the prevention
of or liability for damages done to them ;
or
  * (_c_) the effect of any order in council made
under the Public Works Act imposing or
providing for the collection of tolls or dues
for the use of such works, until such order
is revoked or other provisions made for the
same purpose under this Act. R.S., c. 135, s.

**19.**
