CHAPTER H-l
An Act to provide for the establishment of
harbour commissions

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Harbour
Commissions Act. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" means a harbour Commission
established pursuant to this Act ;
"harbour" in relation to a Commission means
the harbour for which that Commission is
established ;
"member" means a member of a Commission ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport ;
"vessel" includes any ship, boat, barge, raft,
dredge, floating elevator, scow, seaplane or
other floating craft. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 2.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF HARBOUR COMMISSIONS

**3.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
proclamation establish a harbour Commission
for any harbour in Canada that is not named
in the National Harbours Board Act, or for
any harbour for which a harbour Commission
has not otherwise been established by Parlia
ment.
(2) Every Commission established pursuant
to this Act is a body corporate. 1964-65, c. 32,

**3.**

**4.** (1) The proclamation establishing a
Commission shall
  * (_a_) define the limits of the harbour for
which the Commission is established ;
(6) state the corporate name of the Com
mission ; and
  * (_c_) fix the number of members of the
Commission, which shall be not less than
three nor more than five.
(2) The Governor in Council may, by
proclamation, alter from time to time the
limits of a harbour for which a Commission
has been established pursuant to this Act,
change the name of a Commission and
increase or decrease the number of members
thereof, but not so as to decrease the number
below three or increase it above five. 1964-65,
c. 32, s. 4.

## MEMBERS AND STAFF

**5.** (1) Subject to this section, a majority of
the members of a Commission shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council and
the remainder shall be appointed as follows :
  * (_a_) where one municipality only adjoins
the harbour for which the Commission is
established, by the council of that munici
pality;
(6) where two municipalities only adjoin
the harbour for which the Commission is
established and the remainder consists of
two members, one member by the council
of each municipality ; or
  * (_c_) where the number of municipalities
adjoining the harbour for which the Com
mission is established exceeds the number
of members in the remainder, by agreement
among the councils of all of the adjoining
municipalities.
(2) Where the Governor in Council deter
mines that a municipality adjoining the
harbour for which a Commission is established
does not provide normal municipal services,
the member or members of the Commission
to be appointed as provided in subsection (1)
by or by agreement with the council of that
municipality shall instead be appointed by or
by agreement with such of the following
bodies as the Governor in Council may
designate :
  * (_a_) the council of that municipality ;
(6) any organization or group of organiza-
tions representative of local interests in the
vicinity of the harbour for which the
Commission is established ; or
  * (_c_) the lieutenant governor in council of
the province in which the harbour is located.
(3) Where there is no municipality adjoin
ing the harbour for which a Commission is
established, the remainder of the members of
the Commission shall be appointed by such
of the bodies described in paragraph (2)(6) or
  * (_c_) as the Governor in Council may designate.
(4) Where a member of a Commission to be
appointed in the manner prescribed in
subsection (1), (2) or (3) is not appointed
within sixty days from the day on which the
Commission is established under this Act or
from the day on which the office becomes
vacant, such member may be appointed by
the Governor in Council.
(5) Each member of a Commission shall
hold office during pleasure for a term not
exceeding three years and at the expiration
of his term of office may be re-appointed.
(6) No member of the council of a munici
pality adjoining a harbour for which a
Commission is established and no member of
the legislature of the province in which is
located any harbour for which a Commission
is established is eligible to be a member of
that Commission. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Each member of a Commission shall,
before entering upon the duties of his office,
take and subscribe an oath in the following
form:
I, A.B., solemnly swear that I will truly and impartially
and to the best of my skill and understanding execute and
perform the duties of member of the. ..Harbour Commission.
So help me God.
(2) The oath described in subsection (1)
may be administered by a member of the
Commission previously sworn, the Chief
Executive Officer of the Commission or a
justice of the peace. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The members of a Commission shall
elect one of their number as chairman.
(2) A majority of the members constitutes
a quorum of the Commission and a vacancy
in the membership of the Commission does
not impair the right of the remaining members
to act.
(3) There may be paid to each member of
a Commission out of the revenues of the
Commission such remuneration as may be
fixed by the Governor in Council. 1964-65, c.
32, s. 7.
g. (1) The Commission may appoint a
Chief Executive Officer and employ such
other officers and employees as it deems
necessary to carry out the purposes and
functions of the Commission under this Act.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall be
P a ^ out ^ ^ e revenues of the Commission
such salary as may be fixed by the Commission
with the approval of the Minister. 1964-65, c.
32, s. 8.

## GENERAL POWERS

**9.** Subject to this Act, a Commission shall
regulate and control the use and development
of all land, buildings and other property
within the limits of the harbour, and all
docks, wharfs and equipment erected or used
in connection therewith. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 9.
JQ. A Commission may
  * (_a_) with the approval of the Minister, where
the amount involved exceeds such amount
as the Minister may fix, and
(6) without the approval of the Minister, in
any other case,
purchase or otherwise acquire land within the
limits of the harbour or in the immediate
vicinity thereof, and purchase or construct,
and operate and maintain, docks, wharfs,
buildings or other structures and machinery
or other equipment for use in the operation
and development of the harbour and may sell
or lease such land, structures or equipment.
1964-65, c. 32, s. 10.
j j. (i) A Commission may administer and
develop on behalf of Her Majesty in right of
Canada or in right of any province, or on
behalf of any municipality adjoining the
harbour, any property owned by Her Majesty
in right of Canada or in right of that province
or owned by that municipality, as the case
may be, within the limits of the harbour or in
immediate vicinity thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
Commission shall not lease any land
by it on behalf of Her Majesty
in right of Canada
  * (_a_) for any period of twenty years or less
without the approval of the Minister, and
  * (_b_) for any period of more than twenty
years without the approval of the Governor
in Council. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Subject to any other Act of the
Parliament of Canada and any regulations
made thereunder, a Commission may
  * (_a_) construct, purchase or lease and operate
or maintain railways within the boundaries
of the harbour on lands owned by or within
the jurisdiction of the Commission;
(6) enter into agreements with any company
for the maintenance of the railways referred
to in paragraph (a) and for the operation
thereof, in a manner that will afford all
railway companies whose lines reach the
harbour the same facilities for traffic as
those enjoyed by that company ; and
  * (_c_) enter into arrangements with railway,
navigation, air or road transport companies
for the facilitating of traffic to, from or
within the limits of the harbour.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to constitute a Commission a railway compa
ny. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 12.
BY-LAWS

**13.** (1) A Commission may, with the ap
proval of the Governor in Council, make by
laws respecting the management of its internal
affairs and the duties of its officers and
employees, and for the management and
control of the harbour and the works and
property therein under its jurisdiction, includ
ing by-laws respecting
  * (_a_) the regulation of the navigation and
use of the harbour by vessels, including the
mooring and berthing thereof and the
discharging and loading of cargo ;
(6) the regulation of all works and opera-
within the harbour ;
the regulation or prohibition of the
construction of channels, docks, wharfs,
piers, buildings or other structures within
the limits of the harbour and the mainte
nance thereof, and the excavation, removal
or deposit of material or any other action
that is likely to affect in any way the docks,
piers, wharfs or channels of the harbour or
the lands adjacent thereto ;
  * (_d_) the construction, operation and mainte
nance of
  * (_i_) elevators, pipes, conduits and other
works or appliances upon docks, piers or
wharfs within the limits of the harbour,
and
  * (_ii_) pipes or lines of wire or cable across
or under the bed of the harbour ;
  * (_e_) the regulation or prohibition of the
erection of towers or poles, and the stringing
or laying of wires or cables within the
harbour ;
  * (_f_) the transportation, handling or storing
within the harbour of explosives or other
substances that, in the opinion of the
Commission, constitute or are likely to
constitute a danger or hazard to life or
property ;
  * (_g_) the maintenance of order and the
protection of property within the harbour ;
  * (_h_) the punishment that may be imposed
on summary conviction for the breach of
any by-law, which punishment shall not
exceed a fine of five hundred dollars or
imprisonment for a term of six months or
both ; and
  * (_i_) the regulation of all persons and vessels
coming into or using the harbour, including
the imposition and collection of rates to be
paid upon such vessels and upon goods
landed from or shipped on board such
vessels, or transhipped by water within the
harbour.
(2) Every by-law shall, at least ten days

## BORROWING POWERS

**14.** For the purpose of defraying the
of constructing or improving wharfs,
and other works within the limits
of the harbour, a Commission may, on such
terms and conditions as the Governor in
Council may approve,
  * (_a_) borrow money in Canada or elsewhere,
and
(6) issue debentures for sums of not less
than one hundred dollars, payable in not
more than forty years. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 14.

## FINANCES

**15.** (1) The revenues of a Commission shall
be charged with
  * (_a_) the costs of collecting such revenues ;
(6) the expenses, including depreciation,
incurred by the Commission in operating
and maintaining the harbour and works
and property owned, controlled, adminis
tered or managed by the Commission under
this Act ;
  * (_c_) the interest and other charges incurred
in connection with debentures issued or
money borrowed by the Commission under
this Act ; and
  * (_d_) any other expenses lawfully incurred by
the Commission in carrying out its duties
and functions under this Act.
(2) After providing for
  * (_a_) the charges specified in subsection (1),
other than depreciation, and
(6) the appropriation to the funded reserves
of the Commission of such amounts as may
be approved by the Minister,
the revenues of a Commission remaining at
the end of each fiscal year of that Commission
shall be paid by the Commission to the
Receiver General. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 15.

**6.** A Commission may, with the approval
of the Minister of Finance, invest in bonds or
other obligations of Her Majesty in right of
Canada or any province or of any municipality
in Canada any moneys in its reserves or any
moneys not immediately required for the
purpose of the Commission. 1964-65, c. 32,
s. 16.

**17.** (1) A Commission shall
  * (_a_) keep accounts of all moneys borrowed,
received and expended by it under this Act,
and
(6) account therefor to the Minister within
three months after the end of each fiscal
year of the Commission,
in such form and manner as the Minister may
direct.
(2) All books, accounts, records and docu
ments of the Commission shall be at all
reasonable times open for inspection by the
Minister or by a person authorized by the
Minister for such purpose, or, in the case of a
municipality having a substantial interest in
the harbour, as determined by the Minister,
by the auditors of such municipality. 1964-65,
c. 32, s. 17.

**18.** Where a Commission is authorized by
the Governor in Council to develop, adminis
ter or lease any property owned by Her
Majesty in right of Canada within the limits
of or in the vicinity of a harbour, all moneys
paid to the Commission in respect of that
property shall, notwithstanding the Financial
Administration Act, form part of the revenues
of the Commission. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 18.

## EXPROPRIATION

**19.** A Commission may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, take or acquire
lands for the purposes of this Act without the
consent of the owner where it is unable to
agree with the owner as to the price to be
paid therefor, and the provisions of the
Railway Act relating to the taking of lands
by railway companies are, mutatis mutandis,
applicable to the acquisition of such lands by
the Commission. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 19.

## PAYMENTS OF RATES

**20.** The rates imposed by by-law upon the
cargo of a vessel shall be paid by the master
or person in charge of the vessel, without
prejudice to any recourse he may have by law
against any other person for the recovery of
the amounts so paid, but the Commission
may demand and recover the rates from the
owners, consignees, agents or shippers of such
1964-65, c. 32, s. 20.
SEIZURES

**21.** Where
  * (_a_) any amount is due to a Commission for
rates in respect of a vessel or goods, or
  * (_b_) the owner or person in charge of a vessel
or goods has in respect of that vessel or
those goods violated the provisions of any
by-law,
a Commission may, on the order of any
county or district court or any magistrate
having jurisdiction in the area in which the
goods or vessel are located, seize that vessel
or those goods. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 21.

**22.** Any vessel or goods seized pursuant to
section 21 may be detained until there have
been paid in full
  * (_a_) all amounts due and all penalties in
curred in respect thereof ;
(6) all proper and reasonable costs and
charges incurred in the seizure and deten
tion; and
  * (_c_) all court costs in respect thereof. 1964-
65, c. 32, s. 22.

**23.** Where, in the opinion of the Chief
Executive Officer of a Commission, goods
seized by the Commission pursuant to section
21 will rot, spoil or otherwise perish, he may
order the sale of those goods in such manner
and for such price as he may determine and
the proceeds of that sale shall be credited
toward payment of the amounts described in
section 22. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 23.

## EVIDENCE

**24.** (1) A copy of a by-law of a Commission
under its seal and purporting to be signed by
a member or the Chief Executive Officer of
the Commission is evidence of that by-law in
all courts.
(2) A Commission may erect marks or signs
indicate the limits of its harbour and every
or sign so erected is evidence of the
limits of that harbour in all courts. 1964-65, c.
s. 24.

## GENERAL

**25.** A Commission shall not enter into any
transaction of a pecuniary nature directly or
indirectly with any member of the Commis
sion. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 25.

**26.** Proceedings in respect of any violation
of a provision in any by-law made under this
Act may be initiated at any time within one
year after the time when the subject-matter
of the proceedings arose. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 26.

**27.** The Governor in Council may order
any Commission established pursuant to this
Act to wind up its affairs and may by
proclamation dissolve any Commission in
respect of which such an order has been made ;
but such order or proclamation shall become
effective only upon the expiration of ninety
days from the date of the publication thereof
in the Canada Gazette. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 27.

**28.** The Governor in Council may author
ize a Commission to administer and develop
on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada
any property owned by Her Majesty in right
of Canada within the limits of or in the
vicinity of the harbour on such terms and
conditions as the Governor in Council may
determine. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 28.

**29.** Any work undertaken by or on behalf
of the Commission affecting the use of any
navigable waters is subject to the Navigable
Waters Protection Act. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 29.

## TRANSITIONAL

**30.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Gov
ernor in Council may by proclamation declare
a Commission established by an Act set out
in the schedule hereto to be established pur
suant to this Act as of the day fixed in the
proclamation, define the limits of the harbour
for which that Commission is so declared to
be established, and declare the Act set out in
schedule establishing that Commission to
repealed as of that day.
(2) No proclamation shall be issued pur
to subsection (1) unless the Governor in
Council has received
  * (_a_) a by-law passed by the Commission
requesting the Governor in Council to
declare the Commission to be established
pursuant to this Act ; and
(6) a resolution or resolutions approving
such by-law, passed by the council of any
municipality having power to appoint or to
participate in the appointment of a member
of the Commission, or where there is more
than one such municipality, by the councils
of a majority of such municipalities.
(3) The persons who, on the day fixed in a
proclamation issued pursuant to subsection
(1), hold office as chairman or member of a
Commission established by the Act set out in
that proclamation shall be deemed to have
been appointed chairman or member of that
Commission respectively under this Act for
the then unexpired portion of their terms.
(4) A Commission established by an Act set
out in the schedule hereto that is declared by
proclamation of the Governor in Council to
be a Commission established pursuant to this
Act shall be deemed for all purposes to be
one and the same Commission, and from the
day fixed in that proclamation this Act
applies to and in respect of that Commission
in all respects. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 30.
3 1. Notwithstanding anything in the Gov
ernment Harbours and Piers Act or Part XII of
the Canada Shipping Act, where that Act or
Part would apply to any harbour but for the
establishment pursuant to this Act of a
Commission for that harbour, that Act or Part
continues to apply to that harbour until the
day on which any by-laws made by the
Commission under section 13 of this Act
become effective. 1964-65, c. 32, s. 31.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE
The North Eraser Harbour Commissioners Act, chapter 162
of the Statutes of Canada, 1913.
The Port Alberni Harbour Commissioners Act, chapter 42
of the Statutes of Canada, 1947.
The Belleville Harbour Commissioners Act, chapter 34 of the
Statutes of Canada, 1952.
1964-65, c. 32, Sch.; SOR/65-157; SOR/65-221 ; SOR/65-248;
SOR/67-2; SOR/67-120.
