
# CHAPTER H- 10
An Act to provide for the humane slaughter
of food animals

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Humane
Slaughter of Food Animals Act. 1959, c. 44, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"establishment" means an establishment that
is registered under the Meat Inspection Act
and in which meat products are prepared ;
"food animal" means cattle, swine, sheep,
goat or horse ;
"
mea t product" means
  * (_a_) a food animal carcass,
  * (_b_) the product or by-product of a food
animal carcass, and
  * (_c_) a food product containing any product
or by-product mentioned in paragraph (b).
1959, c. 44, s. 2.

**3.** No person shall export out of Canada,
or send or convey from one province to
another, any meat product prepared in an
establishment unless
  * (_a_) the food animal from which the meat
product was derived was slaughtered in the
manner prescribed by the regulations, and
  * (_b_) the establishment meets the require
ments of the regulations. 1959, c. 44, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may, for the
of ensuring humane slaughter of food
animals in an establishment, make regulations
the manner of, and methods and
to be employed in, the slaughter of
animals in an establishment. 1959, c. 44,

**4.**

**5.** (1) Every person who or whose employee
or agent has violated any provision of this
Act is guilty of an offence and is liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both, or
(6) upon conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence to
establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence.
(3) Proceedings in respect of an offence
under this Act may be instituted, carried on
and concluded at the place where the offence
was committed or where the accused resides
or carries on business. 1959, c. 44, s. 5.

**6.** Every inspector appointed, designated
or employed under the Meat Inspection Act
may for the purposes of this Act exercise all
the powers he has under the Meat Inspection
Act. 1959, c. 44, s. 6.
