
# CHAPTER H-3
Act to prohibit the advertising, sale and
importation of hazardous products

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Hazardous
Produces Act. 1968^69, c. 42, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"advertise" includes any representation by
any means whatever for the purpose of
promoting directly or indirectly the sale or
other disposition of a hazardous product;
"analyst" means a person designated as an
analyst under the Food and Drugs Act or by
the Minister pursuant to section 4;
"hazardous product" means any product or
substance included in Part I or Part II of
the schedule ;
"inspector" means any person designated as
a hazardous products inspector pursuant to
section 4 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs and in sections 9 and
10 includes the Minister of National Health
and Welfare ;
"sell" includes sell, offer for sale, expose for
sale, and distribute. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 2.

## OFFENCE

**3.** (i) N o person shall advertise, sell or
into Canada a hazardous product
in Part I of the schedule.
(2) No person shall advertise, sell or import
into Canada a hazardous product included in
Part II of the schedule except as authorized
by the regulations.
(3) Every person who violates subsection (1)
or (2) is guilty of
  * (_a_) an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a fine of one thousand dollars
or to imprisonment for six months, or to
both ; or
(6) an indictable offence and liable to
imprisonment for two years.
(4) A prosecution under paragraph (3)(a)
may be instituted at any time within twelve
months after the time when the subject-matter
of the prosecution arose. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 3.

## INSPECTORS AND ANALYSTS

**4.** (1) The Minister may designate as a
hazardous products inspector for the purposes
of this Act any person who, in his opinion, is
qualified to be so designated.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
certificate of his designation as an inspector
and on entering any place pursuant to
subsection 5(1) shall, if so required, produce
the certificate to the person in charge thereof.
(3) The Minister may designate as an
analyst for the purposes of this Act any
person employed in the public service of
Canada who, in his opinion, is qualified to be
"
so designated. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 4.

## SEARCH, SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE

**5.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
time enter any place where on reasonable
grounds he believes any hazardous product is
manufactured, prepared, preserved, packaged,
sold or stored for sale and
  * (_a_) examine any product or substance that
he reasonably believes is a hazardous
product and take samples thereof, and
examine any other thing that he reasonably
believes is used or is capable of being used
for the manufacture, preparation, preserva
tion, packaging, sale or storage of a
hazardous product ;
(6) open and examine any receptacle or
package that on reasonable grounds he
believes contains any hazardous product ;
  * (_c_) examine any books, records or other
documents that on reasonable grounds he
believes contain any information relevant
to the enforcement of this Act and make
copies thereof or extracts therefrom ; and
  * (_d_) seize any product or substance, or any
labelling, advertising material or other
thing, by means of or in relation to which
he reasonably believes any provision of this
Act or the regulations has been violated.
(2) The owner or person in charge of a place
entered by an inspector pursuant to subsection
(1) and every person found therein shall give
the inspector such assistance and furnish him
with such information as the inspector may,
for the purpose of exercising the powers
referred to in paragraphs (l)(a) to (d),
reasonably require him to give or furnish.
(3) No person shall obstruct an inspector in
the exercise of his powers or the carrying out
of his duties under this Act or the regulations.
(4) NO person shall knowingly make any
false or misleading statement, either verbally
or in writing, to any inspector engaged in
exercising his powers or carrying out his duties
under this Act or the regulations.
(5) Except with the authority of an inspec
tor, no person shall remove, alter or interfere
in any way with anything seized under this
Act by an inspector.
(6) Anything seized under this Act by an
inspector may at the option of an inspector
be kept or stored in the building or place
where it was seized or may be removed to any
other proper place by or at the direction of
an inspector. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Where any product, substance or
thing has been seized under this Act,
person may, within two months after the
of such seizure, upon prior notice having
been given in accordance with subsection (2)
to the Minister by registered mail addressed
to him at Ottawa, apply to a magistrate
within whose territorial jurisdiction the seizure
was made for an order of restoration under
subsection (3).
(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1)
shall be mailed at least fifteen clear days
prior to the day on which the application is
to be made to the magistrate and shall specify
  * (_a_) the magistrate to whom the application
is to be made;
(6) the place where and the time when the
application is to be heard ;
  * (_c_) the product, substance or other thing in
respect of which the application is to be
made; and
  * (_d_) the evidence upon which the applicant
intends to rely to establish that he is
entitled to possession of the thing in respect
of which the application is to be made.
(3) Subject to subsections (5) and (6). where,
upon the hearing of an application made
under subsection (1), the magistrate is satisfied
  * (_a_) that the applicant is entitled to posses
sion of the product, substance or other thing
seized, and
(6) that the thing seized is not and will not
be required as evidence in any proceedings
in respect of an offence under this Act,
he shall order that the thing seized be restored
forthwith to the applicant, and where the
magistrate is satisfied that the applicant is
entitled to possession of the thing seized but
is not satisfied as to the matters mentioned
in paragraph (b), he shall order that the thing
seized be restored to the applicant
  * (_c_) upon the expiration of four months from
the date of such seizure if no proceedings
in respect of an offence under section 3
have been commenced before that time, or
  * (_d_) upon the final conclusion of any such
proceedings in any other case.
(4) Where no application has been made
under subsection (1) for the restoration of an}
been made but upon the hearing thereof no
order of restoration is made, the thing so
seized shall be delivered to the Minister who
may make such disposition thereof as he
thinks fit.
(5) Where a person has been convicted of
an offence under section 3, any hazardous
product seized under this Act by means of or
in respect of which the offence was committed
is forfeited to Her Majesty and shall be
disposed of as the Minister directs.
(6) Where an inspector has seized a hazard
ous product under this Act and the owner
thereof or the person in whose possession the
product was at the time of seizure consents in
writing to the destruction thereof, the hazard
ous product is thereupon forfeited to Her
Majesty and shall be disposed of as the
Minister may direct. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 6.

## REGULATIONS

**7.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) authorizing the advertising, sale or
importation into Canada of any hazardous
product included in Part II of the schedule
and prescribing the circumstances and
conditions under which and the persons by
whom such hazardous product may be sold,
advertised or imported into Canada ;
(6) respecting the powers and duties of
inspectors and analysts and the taking of
samples and the seizure, detention, forfei
ture and disposition of products, substances
and other things ;
  * (_c_) prescribing the procedures to be followed
by a Hazardous Products Board of Review
established pursuant to section 9 in con
ducting an inquiry ; and
  * (_d_) generally, for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1968-69, c. 42,
s. 7.

## SCHEDULE

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
  * (_a_) any product or substance that is or
contains a poisonous, toxic, inflammable,
explosive or corrosive product or substance
or other product or substance of a similar
nature that he is satisfied is or is likely to
be a danger to the health or safety of the
public, or
(6) any product designed for household,
garden or personal use, for use in sports or
recreational activities, as life-saving equip
ment or as a toy, plaything or equipment
for use by children that he is satisfied is or
is likely to be a danger to the health or
safety of the public because of its design,
construction or contents,
or by deleting therefrom any product or
substance the inclusion of which therein he is
satisfied is no longer necessary.
(2) An order amending Part I of the
schedule may be made by the Governor in
Council on the recommendation of the
Minister or the Minister of National Health
and Welfare.
(3) Every order adding a product or
substance to Part I or Part II of the schedule
shall be laid before the Senate and the House
of Commons not later than fifteen days after
it is made or, if Parliament is not then sitting,
on any of the first fifteen days next thereafter
that Parliament is sitting.
(4) if both Houses of Parliament resolve
that an or&amp;lt;^ er or anv P ar t thereof should be
revoked, the order or that part thereof is
thereupon revoked. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 8.

## BOARD OF REVIEW

**9.** (1) Where a product or substance is
added to Part I or Part II of the schedule by
order of the Governor in Council, any
manufacturer or distributor of that product
or substance or any person having that
product or substance in his possession for sale
may, within sixty days from the date of the
making of the order, request the Minister that
the order be referred to a Hazardous Products
Board of Review.
(2) Upon receipt of a request described in
(1), the Minister shall establish a
Products Board of Review (here
inafter referred to as the "Board"), consisting
of not more than three persons and shall refer
the order in respect of which the request was
made to the Board.
(3) The Board shall inquire into the nature
and characteristics of any product or substance
to which an order referred to it under
subsection (2) applies and shall give the
person making the request and any other
person affected by the order a reasonable
opportunity of appearing before the Board,
presenting evidence and making representa
tions to it.
(4) The Board has all the powers that are
or may be conferred by or under sections 4, 5,
and 11 of the Inquiries Act on commissioners
appointed under Part I of that Act.
(5) The Board, as soon as possible after the
conclusion of its inquiry, shall submit a report
with its recommendations to the Minister,
together with all evidence and other material
that was before the Board.
(6) Any report of the Board shall, within
thirty days after its receipt by the Minister,
be made public by him, unless the Board
states in writing to the Minister that it
believes the public interest would be better
served by withholding publication, in which
case the Minister may decide whether the
report, either in whole or in part, shall be
made public.
(7) The Minister may publish and supply
copies of a report referred to in subsection (5)
in such manner and upon such terms as he
deems proper. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 9.

## DISCLOSURE

**10.** (1) Where the Minister has reason to
believe that a product or substance is a
product or substance that may be added to
Part I or Part II of the schedule by an order
made pursuant to section 8, he may send a
written notice to the manufacturer of the
or substance requesting him to disclose
the Minister the formula, composition or
chemical ingredients of the product or
and such other information in the
possession of the manufacturer as the Minister
deems necessary for the purpose of determin
ing whether the product or substance is or is
likely to be a danger to the health or safety
of the public.
(2) Every manufacturer to whom a written
notice referred to in subsection (1) is sent shall
disclose to the Minister, within the time
specified by the Minister in the notice, any
information described in subsection (1) that is
requested in the notice.
(3) Information received by the Minister
from a manufacturer pursuant to subsection
(1) is privileged and shall not be disclosed to
any other person except as may be necessary
for the administration or enforcement of this
section or for the purposes of section 8. 1968-
69, c. 42, s. 10.

## PROSECUTIONS

**11.** (1) No exception, exemption, excuse or
qualification prescribed by law is required to
be set out or negatived, as the case may be,
in an information or indictment for an offence
under section 3 of this Act or under section
421, 422 or 423 of the Criminal Code in respect
of an offence under section 3.
(2) In any prosecution for an offence
mentioned in subsection (1) the burden of
proving that an exception, exemption, excuse
or qualification prescribed by law operates in
favour of the accused is on the accused, and
the prosecutor is not required, except by way
of rebuttal, to prove that the exception,
exemption, excuse or qualification does not
operate in favour of the accused, whether or
not it is set out in the information or
indictment. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Subject to this section, a certificate
of an analyst stating that he has analyzed or
examined a product or substance and stating
the result of his analysis or examination is
admissible in evidence in any prosecution for
an offence mentioned in subsection 11(1) and
in the absence of any evidence to the contrary
is proof of the statements contained in the
without proof of the signature or
official character of the person appearing
have signed the certificate.
(2) The party against whom a certificate of
an analyst is produced pursuant to subsection
(1) may, with leave of the court, require the
attendance of the analyst for the purposes of
cross-examination.
(3) No certificate shall be received in
evidence pursuant to subsection (1) unless the
party intending to produce it has, before the
trial, given to the party against whom it is
intended to be produced reasonable notice of
such intention together with a copy of the
certificate. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 12.

**13.** A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 13.

## OTHER OFFENCES
J4. Every person who contravenes any
provision of this Act, other than section 3, or
of the regulations is guilty of an offence and
liable on summary conviction to a fine of five
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for three
months, or to both. 1968-69, c. 42, s. 14.

## APPLICATION OF ACT

**15.** This Act does not apply to any product
or substance that is
  * (_a_) an explosive within the meaning of the
Explosives Act ;
(6) a cosmetic, device, drug or food within
the meaning of the Food and Drugs Act;
  * (_c_) a control product within the meaning of
the Pest Control Products Act; or
  * (_d_) a prescribed substance within the mean
ing of the Atomic Energy Control Act. 1968-
69, c. 42, s. 15.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE

## PART I

**1.** Jequirity beans(ot&amp;gt;nts precatorius) or any substance or
article made from or including Jequirity beans in whole or
in part.

**2.** Furniture, toys and other articles intended for children,
painted with a liquid coating material containing lead com
pounds of which the lead content (calculated as lead) is in
excess of 0.50 per cent of the total weight of the contained
solids, including pigments, film solids and driers.

**3.** Liquid coating materials and paint and varnish removers
for household use having a flashpoint of Jess than 0F as
determined by method 3.1 of Specification l-GP-71 of the
Canadian Government Specifications Board.

## PART II

**1.** Bleaches, cleansers and sanitizers for household use con
taining chlorine or compounds thereof.

**2.** Cleansers for household use containing sodium hydroxide,
potassium hydroxide, sodium bisulfate, hydrochloric acid or
phosphoric acid.

**3.** Household polishes and cleaning agents containing petro
leum distillates or chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons.

**4.** Glues for household or hobbycraft use containing aliphatic
or aromatic hydrocarbon solvents or ketone solvents.
1968-69, c. 42, Sch.
