
# CHAPTER H-6
Act to establish the Historic Sites and
Monuments Board of Canada

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Historic
Sites and Monuments Act. 1952-53, c. 39, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Historic Sites and Monu
ments Board of Canada established by this
Act;
"historic place" means a site, building or
other place of national historic interest or
significance, and includes buildings or
structures that are of national interest by
reason of age or architectural design ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development. 1952-
53, c. 39, s. 2 ; 1953-54, c. 4, s. 12 ; 1955, c. 20,
s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.

## COMMEMORATION OF HISTORIC SITES

**3.** The Minister may
  * (_a_) by means of plaques or other signs or in
any other suitable manner, mark or other
wise commemorate historic places ;
(6) make agreements with any persons for
marking or commemorating historic places
pursuant to this Act and for the care and
preservation of any places so marked or
commemorated ;
  * (_c_) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, establish historic museums;
  * (_d_) with the approval of the Treasury
Board, acquire on behalf of Her Majesty in
right of Canada any historic places, or
lands for historic museums, or any interest
therein, by purchase, lease or otherwise;
and
  * (_e_) provide for the administration, preser
vation and maintenance of any historic
places acquired or historic museums estab
lished pursuant to this Act. 1952-53, c. 39, s.

**3.**

## HISTORIC SITES AND MONUMENTS BOARD

**4.** (1) A Board to be called the Historic
Sites and Monuments Board of Canada is
hereby established, consisting of fifteen mem
bers as follows :
  * (_a_) the Dominion Archivist,
(6) an officer of the National Museums of
Canada designated by the Secretary of
State of Canada,
  * (_c_) an officer of the Department of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development desig
nated by the Minister, and
  * (_d_) two representatives for each of the
Provinces of Ontario and Quebec and one
representative for each of the other eight
provinces of Canada, to be appointed by
the Governor in Council.
(2) A person is not eligible to be appointed
or to continue as a representative for a
province unless he resides in that province.
(3) A member appointed by the Governor
in Council holds office during pleasure for
such period not exceeding five years as may
be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(4) A retiring member of the Board is
eligible for re-appointment.
(5) f ne Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members of the Board to be the
Chairman thereof.
(6) The Board shall meet at least once in
every calendar year at the call of the
Chairman, but the time and place of each
such meeting is subject to the approval of the
Minister; and, in addition, the Board shall
hold such other meetings at such times and
places as the Minister may require.
(7) Eight members constitute a quorum.
(8) The Minister may
  * (_a_) designate an officer of the Department
of Indian Affairs and Northern Develop
ment to be the Secretary of the Board, or
  * (_b_) appoint a Secretary of the Board at
such remuneration and under such terms or
conditions of employment as may be
prescribed by the Governor in Council,
and may from among the persons employed
in that Department provide the Board with
such other employees or assistants as are
necessary for the proper conduct of the
business of the Board. 1952-53, c. 39, s. 4;
1953-54, c. 4, s. 12 ; 1955, c. 20, s. 2 ; 1966-67, c.
25, s. 40; 1968-69, c. 43, s. 1.

**5.** The Board may receive and consider
recommendations respecting the marking or
commemoration of historic places, the estab
lishment of historic museums and the adminis
tration, preservation and maintenance of
historic places and historic museums, and
shall advise the Minister in carrying out his
powers under this Act. 1952-53, c. 39, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Each member of the Board appointed
by the Governor in Council may be paid
  * (_a_) for each day he is necessarily absent
from his ordinary place of residence for the
purpose of attending at meetings or to other
business of the Board, such remuneration
as is fixed by the Governor in Council, and
(6) his actual travelling expenses necessarily
incurred in connection with the business of
the Board.
(2) Members of the Board other than those
appointed by the Governor in Council are
entitled to be paid their actual living and
travelling expenses necessarily incurred in
connection with the business of the Board.
(3) There may be paid for clerical and
stenographic assistance
  * (_a_) the sum of seventy-five dollars per
annum to the Chairman of the Board, and
  * (_b_) the sum of thirty dollars per annum to
the other members of the Board appointed
by the Governor in Council. 1955, c. 20, s.
3; 1968-69,c.43,s.2.
y  ^\\ expenditures for the purpose of this
Act shall be paid out of moneys appropriated
bv Parliament therefor. 1952-53, c. 39, s. 7.
g. The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect. 1952-53, c.
39, s. 8.
9 (j) \ s soon as practicable after the end
of each calendar year the Board shall submit
to the Minister a report of its proceedings for
the calendar year in such form as the Minister
may prescribe.
(2) J n addition to the report required by
subsection (1), the Board shall furnish to the
Minister such other statements or reports in
respect of its activities, at such time and in
such manner, as the Minister may require.
1952-53, c. 39, s. 9.
