Act. R.S., c. 143, s. 1.

## DISQUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS

**2.** (1) No person who, on the day of the
nomination at any election to the House of
Commons, is a member of any legislative
council or of any legislative assembly of any
province, is eligible as a member of the House
of Commons, or is capable of being nominated
or voted for at such election, or of being
elected to or of sitting or voting in the House
of Commons.
(2) If any one so declared ineligible is
elected and returned as a member of the
House of Commons, his election is void. R.S.,
c. 143,8.2.

**3.** If any member of the House of Commons
is elected and returned to any legislative
assembly, or is elected or appointed a member
of any legislative council and accepts the
seat, his election as a member of the House
of Commons thereupon becomes void, his seat
shall be vacated, and a new writ shall issue
forthwith for a new election. R.S., c. 143, s. 3.

**4.** Any member of the House of Commons
elected or appointed to a provincial legislature
without his knowledge or consent shall
continue to hold his seat in the House of
Commons as if no such election or appoint
made, if, without taking his seat in the
provincial legislature, and within ten days
after being notified of such election or
appointment, or, if he is not within the
province at the time, then within ten days
after his arrival within the province, he resigns
his seat in such legislature, and notifies the
Speaker of the House of Commons of such
resignation. R.S., c. 143, s. 4.

**5.** (i) if any per son who is by this Act
declared ineligible as a member of the House
of Commons, or incapable of sitting or voting
therein, so sits or votes, he shall forfeit the
sum of two thousand dollars for every day
that he sits or votes.
(2) Such sum may be recovered by any
person who sues for the same, by action in
any form allowed by law in the province in
which the action is brought, in any court
having jurisdiction. R.S., c. 143, s. 5.

## RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS

**6.** (1) Any member of the House of Com
mons may resign his seat
  * (_a_) by giving, in his place in the House,
notice of his intention to resign, in which
case, and immediately after such notice has
been entered by the clerk on the journals of
the House, the Speaker shall forthwith
address his warrant, under his hand and
seal, to the Chief Electoral Officer, for the
issue of a writ for the election of a new
member in the place of the member
resigning; or
(6) by addressing and causing to be deliv
ered to the Speaker a declaration of his
intention to resign his seat, made in writing
under his hand and seal before two witnesses,
which declaration may be so made and
delivered either during a session of Parlia
ment, or in the interval between two
sessions, in which case the Speaker shall,
upon receiving such declaration, forthwith
address his warrant, under his hand and
seal, to the Chief Electoral Officer, for the
issue of a writ for the election of a new
member in the place of the member so
resigning ;
and in either case a writ shall issue accordingly.
the Speaker shall be thereafter made in the
of the House. R.S., c. 143, s. 6.

**7.** (1) If any member of the House of
Commons wishes to resign his seat in the
interval between two sessions of Parliament,
and there is then no Speaker, or, if the
Speaker is absent from Canada, or, if such
member is himself the Speaker, he may
address or cause to be delivered to any two
members of the House the declaration of his
intention to resign mentioned in section 6.
(2) The two members, upon receiving the
declaration, shall forthwith address their
warrant, under their hands and seals, to the
Chief Electoral Officer for the issue of a new
writ for the election of a member in the place
of the member so notifying his intention to
resign, and such writ shall issue accordingly.
R.S., c. 143, s. 7.

**8.** Any member tendering his resignation
in any manner hereinbefore provided, shall
be held to have vacated his seat and ceases to
be a member of the House. R.S., c. 143, s. 8.

**9.** No member shall tender his resignation
while his election is lawfully contested, or
until after the expiration of the time during
which it may by law be contested on other
grounds than corruption or bribery. R.S., c.
143, s. 9.

## VACANCIES

**10.** If any vacancy happens in the House
of Commons by the death of any member, or
by his accepting any office, the Speaker, on
being informed of the vacancy by any member
of the House in his place, or by notice in
writing under the hands and seals of any two
members of the House, shall forthwith address
his warrant to the Chief Electoral Officer, for
the issue of a new writ for the election of a
member to fill the vacancy ; and a new writ
shall issue accordingly. R.S., c. 143, s. 10.

**11.** If, when such vacancy happens, or at
time thereafter, before the Speaker s
for a new writ has issued, there is no
of the House, or if the Speaker is
absent from Canada, or if the member whose
is vacated is himself the Speaker, then,
any two members of the House may address
their warrant, under their hands and seals, to
the Chief Electoral Officer, for the issue of a
new writ for the election of a member to fill
such vacancy ; and such writ shall issue
accordingly. R.S., c. 143, s. 11.

**12.** (1) A warrant may issue to the Chief
Electoral Officer for the issue of a new writ
for the election of a member of the House of
Commons to fill any vacancy arising after a
general election, and before the first meeting
of Parliament thereafter, by reason of the
death or acceptance of such office of any
member.
(2) Such writ may issue at any time after
such death or acceptance of office.
(3) The election to be held under such writ
does not in any manner affect the rights of
any person entitled to contest the previous
election.
(4) The report of any judge appointed to
try such previous election, or of the Supreme
Court of Canada, in case of an appeal, shall
determine whether the member who has so
died or accepted office, or any other person
was duly returned or elected at the previous
election.
(5) The determination, if adverse to the
return of such member, and in favour of any
other candidate, avoids the election held
under this section, and the candidate declared
duly elected at the previous election is entitled
to take his seat as if no such subsequent
election had been held. R.S., c. 143, s. 12.

**13.** (1) In the event of a vacancy occurring,
a writ shall be issued within six months after
the receipt by the Chief Electoral Officer of
the warrant for the issue of a new writ for the
election of a member of the House of
Commons.
(2) This section does not apply where the
vacancy in respect of which the warrant has
withdrawn. R.S., c. 143, s. 13.

**14.** No person shall be nominated and
consent to be nominated so as to be a
candidate for election as a member of the
House of Commons for more than one
electoral district at the same time, and if any
person is so nominated for more than one
electoral district and consents thereto all such
nominations are void. R.S., c. 143, s. 14.

## INTERNAL ECONOMY

**15.** The person who fills the office of
Speaker at the time of any dissolution of
Parliament, shall, for the purpose of the
following provisions of this Act, be deemed to
be the Speaker until a Speaker is chosen by
the new Parliament. R.S., c. 143, s. 15.

**16.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
appoint four members of the Queen s Privy
Council for Canada who are also members of
the House of Commons, who, with the Speaker
of the House of Commons, shall be commis
sioners for the purposes of this section and
sections 17 and 18.
(2) The names and offices of such commis
sioners shall be communicated by message
from the Governor in Council to the House
of Commons, in the first week of each session
of Parliament.
(3) Three of the commissioners, whereof the
Speaker of the House of Commons shall be
one, may carry the said provisions into
execution.
(4) In the event of the death, disability, or
absence from Canada of the Speaker during
any dissolution or prorogation of Parliament,
any three of the commissioners may carry the
said provisions into execution. R.S., c. 143, s.

**16.**

**17.** (1) The Clerk of the House of Commons
shall annually prepare an estimate of the
sums that will probably be required to be
provided by Parliament for the payment of
the indemnity and the actual moving or
transportation expenses of members, and of
allowances and contingent expenses
of the House, and of the several officers and
thereof under his direction, during the
year.
(2) The Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of
Commons shall annually prepare an estimate
of the sums that will probably be required to
be provided by Parliament for the payment
of salaries or allowances of the messengers,
doorkeepers and servants of the House under
his direction, and of the contingent expenses
under his direction, during such year.
(3) Such estimates shall be submitted to the
Speaker for his approval, and are subject to
such approval and to such alterations as the
Speaker considers proper.
(4) The Speaker shall thereupon prepare an
estimate of the sums requisite for the several
purposes aforesaid, and shall sign the same.
(5) Such several estimates of the Clerk,
Sergeant-at-Arms and Speaker shall be trans-
mitted by the Speaker to the Minister of
Finance for his approval, and shall be laid
severally before the House of Commons with
the other estimates for the year. R.S., c. 143,
s. 17.

**18.** All sums of money voted by Parliament
upon such estimates or payable to members
of the House of Commons under the Senate
and House of Commons Act, are subject to the
order of the commissioners, or any three of
them, of whom the Speaker shall be one. R.S.,
c. 143, s. 18.
OFFICERS

**19.** (1) If any complaint or representation
is at any time made to the Speaker for the
time being of the misconduct or unfitness of
any clerk, officer, messenger or other person
attendant on the House of Commons, the
Speaker may cause an inquiry to be made
into the conduct or fitness of such person.
(2) If thereupon it appears to the Speaker
that such person has been guilty of misconduct ,
or is unfit to hold his situation, the Speaker
may, if such clerk, officer, messenger or other
person has been appointed by the Crown,
him and report such suspension to
the Governor General, and if he has not been
appointed by the Crown, suspend or remove
him. R.S.,c. 143, s. 19.

**20.** (1) The Clerk of the House of Commons
shall subscribe and take before the Speaker
the oath of allegiance, and all other officers,
clerks and messengers of the House of
Commons shall subscribe and take before the
Clerk of the House of Commons the oath of
allegiance.
(2) The Clerk of the House of Commons
shall keep a register of all such oaths. R.S., c.
143, s. 20.
