
## CHAPTER I- 1
An Act respecting the identification of
criminals

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Identification
of Criminals Act. R.S., c. 144, s. 1.

**2.** (1) Any person in lawful custody,
charged with, or under conviction of an
indictable offence, or who has been apprehend
ed under the Extradition Act or the Fugitive
Offenders Act, may be subjected, by or under
the direction of those in whose custody he is,
to the measurements, processes and operations
practised under the system for the identifica
tion of criminals commonly known as the
Bertillon Signaletic System, or to any meas
urements, processes or operations sanctioned
by the Governor in Council having the like
object in view.
(2) Such force may be used as is necessary
to the effectual carrying out and application
of such measurements, processes and opera
tions.
(3) The signaletic cards and other results
thereof may be published for the purpose of
affording information to officers and others
engaged in the execution or administration
of the law. R.S., c. 144, s. 2.

**3.** j,fo one having the custody of any such
i - i  j j
person, and no one acting in his aid or under
his direction, and no one concerned in such
publication, incurs any liability, civil or
criminal, for anything lawfully done under
this Act. R.S., c. 144, s. 3.
