of Industry, Trade and Commerce Act.

**2.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Industry, Trade and Commerce over which
the Minister of Industry , Trade and Commerce
appointed by commission under the Great
Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce holds office during pleasure and
has the management and direction of the
Department of Industry, Trade and Com
merce. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 13.

**3.** Th e Governor in Council may appoint
an officer called the Deputy Minister of
Industry, Trade and Commerce to be the
deputy head of the Department of Industry,
Trade and Commerce and to hold office
during pleasure. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 14.

**4.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce
extend to and include all matters over which
the Parliament of Canada has jurisdiction,
not by law assigned to any other department,
branch or agency of the Government of
Canada, relating to
  * (_a_) manufacturing and processing industries
in Canada ;
(6) tourism ; and
  * (_c_) trade and commerce generally. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 15.

**5.** The Minister of Industry, Trade and
  * (_a_) promote the establishment, growth and
of manufacturing, processing and
tourist industries in Canada, contribute to
the sound development and productivity of
Canadian industry generally and foster the
expansion of Canadian trade ;
(6) develop and carry out such programs
and projects as may be appropriate to
  * (_i_) assist manufacturing and processing
industries to adapt to changes in tech
nology and to changing conditions in
domestic and export markets,
  * (_ii_) assist manufacturing and processing
industries to develop their unrealized
potential, to rationalize and restructure
their productive facilities and corporate
organizations and to cope with exception
al problems of adjustment, and
  * (_iii_) promote and assist product and
process development and increased
productivity, the greater use of research,
the application of advanced technology
and modern management techniques, the
modernization of equipment, the utiliza
tion of improved industrial design and
the development and application of sound
industrial standards in Canada and in
world trade ;
  * (_c_) improve the access of Canadian produce,
products and services into external markets
through trade negotiations and the promo
tion of trade relations with other countries
and contribute to the improvement of world
trading conditions ;
  * (_d_) promote the optimum development of
Canadian export sales of all produce,
products and services ;
  * (_e_) provide support services for industrial
and trade development, including informa
tion, import analysis and traffic services ;
(J) analyze the implications for Canadian
industry, trade and commerce and for
tourism of government policies related
thereto in order to contribute to the
formulation and review of those policies ;
  * (_g_) compile and keep up to date detailed
information in respect of manufacturing
income from tourism and compile and keep
up to date detailed information in respect
of the tourist industry and of trends and
developments in Canada and abroad relat
ing to tourism. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 16.

**6.** The Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce, in exercising his powers and
carrying out his duties and functions under
this Act,
  * (_a_) shall, where appropriate, make use of
the services and facilities of other depart
ments, branches or agencies of the Govern
ment of Canada ;
  * (_b_) may, with the approval of the Governor
in Council, enter into agreements with the
government of any province or any agency
thereof respecting the carrying out of
programs for which the Minister is respon
sible ; and
  * (_c_) may consult with, and organize confer
ences of, representatives of industry and
labour, provincial and municipal authorities
and other interested persons. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 17.

**7.** Jh e Governor in Council may establish
advisory and other committees to advise or
assist the Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce or to perform such duties and
exercise such powers as the Governor in
Council may specify, and may fix the
remuneration and expenses to be paid to the
members of the committees so established.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 18.
g. The Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce shall, on or before the 31st day of
January next following the end of each fiscal
year or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on
any of the first five days next thereafter that
Parliament is sitting, submit to Parliament a
report showing the operations of the Depart
ment of Industry, Trade and Commerce for
that fiscal year. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 19.
