
## CHAPTER I- 13
Act respecting public and departmental
inquiries

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Inquiries
Act. R.S., c. 154, s. 1.

## PART I

## PUBLIC INQUIRIES

**2.** The Governor in Council may , whenever
he deems it expedient, cause inquiry to be
made into and concerning any matter con
nected with the good government of Canada
or the conduct of any part of the public
business thereof. R.S., c. 154, s. 2.

**3.** Where an inquiry as described in section
2 is not regulated by any special law, the
Governor in Council may, by a commission
in the case, appoint persons as commissioners
by whom the inquiry shall be conducted. R.S.,
c. 154,s.3.

**4.** The commissioners have the power of
summoning before them any witnesses, and
of requiring them to give evidence on oath,
or on solemn affirmation if they are persons
entitled to affirm in civil matters, and orally
or in writing, and to produce such documents
and things as the commissioners deem requisite
to the full investigation of the matters into
which they are appointed to examine. R.S., c.
154,s.4.

**5.** The commissioners have the same power
to enforce the attendance of witnesses and to
compel them to give evidence as is vested in

**5.**

## PART II

## DEPARTMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS

**6.** The minister presiding over any depart
ment of the Public Service may appoint at
any time, under the authority of the Governor
in Council, a commissioner or commissioners
to investigate and report upon the state and
management of the business, or any part of
the business, of such department, either in
the inside or outside service thereof, and the
conduct of any person in such service, so far
as the same relates to his official duties. R.S.,
c. 154,s.6.

**7.** The commissioner or commissioners may,
for the purposes of the investigation, enter
into and remain within any public office or
institution, and shall have access to every
part thereof, and may examine all papers,
documents, vouchers, records and books of
every kind belonging thereto, and may
summon before him or them any person and
require him to give evidence on oath, orally
or in writing, or on solemn affirmation if he
is entitled to affirm in civil matters ; and any
such commissioner may administer such oath
or affirmation. R.S., c. 154, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The commissioner or commissioners
may, under his or their hand or hands, issue
a subpoena or other request or summons,
requiring and commanding any person therein
named to appear at the time and place
mentioned therein, and then and there to
testify to all matters within his knowledge
relative to the subject-matter of such investi
gation, and to bring with him and produce
any document, book, or paper that he has in
his possession or under his control relative to
any such matter as aforesaid ; and any such
person may be summoned from any part of
Canada by virtue of the subpoena, request or
summons.
(2) Reasonable travelling expenses shall be
paid to any person so summoned at the time
of service of the subpoena, request or summons.
R.S..C. 154,s.8.

**9.** (1) If , by reason of the distance at which
any P erson whose evidence is desired, resides
from the place where his attendance is
required, or for any other cause, the commis
sioner or commissioners deem it advisable, he
or they may issue a commission or other
authority to any officer or person therein
named, empowering him to take such evidence
and report it to him or them.
(2) Such officer or person shall, before
entering on any investigation, be sworn before
a justice of the peace faithfully to execute
the duty entrusted to him by such commission,
and, with regard to such evidence, has the
same powers as the commissioner or commis
sioners would have had if such evidence had
been taken before him or them, and may, in
like manner, under his hand issue a subpoena
or other request or summons for the purpose
of compelling the attendance of any person,
or the production of any document, book or
paper. R.S., c. 154, s. 9.
1Q. (1) Every person who
  * (_a_) being required to attend in the manner
provided in this Part, fails, without valid
excuse, to attend accordingly,
  * (_b_) being commanded to produce any
document, book or paper, in his possession
or under his control, fails to produce the
same,
  * (_c_) refuses to be sworn or to affirm, as the
case may be, or
  * (_d_) refuses to answer any proper question
put to him by a commissioner, or other
person as aforesaid,
is liable, on summary conviction before any
police or stipendiary magistrate, or judge of
a superior or county court, having jurisdiction
in the county or district in which such person
resides, or in which the place is situated at
which he was so required to attend, to a
penalty not exceeding four hundred dollars.
(2) The judge of the superior or county
court aforesaid shall, for the purposes of this
Part, be a justice of the peace. R.S., c. 154, s.

**10.**

## PART III

## GENERAL

**11.** (1) The commissioners, whether ap
pointed under Part I or under Part II, if
thereunto authorized by the commission
issued in the case, may engage the services of
such accountants, engineers, technical advis
ers, or other experts, clerks, reporters and
assistants as they deem necessary or advisable,
and also the services of counsel to aid and
assist the commissioners in the inquiry.
(2) The commissioners may authorize and
depute any such accountants, engineers,
technical advisers, or other experts, or any
other qualified persons, to inquire into any
matter within the scope of the commission as
may be directed by the commissioners.
(3) The persons so deputed, when author
ized by order in council , have the same powers
that the commissioners have to take evidence,
issue subpoenas, enforce the attendance of
witnesses, compel them to give evidence, and
otherwise conduct the inquiry.
(4) The persons so deputed shall report the
evidence and their findings, if any, thereon
to the commissioners. R.S., c. 154, s. 11.

**12.** The commissioners may allow any
person whose conduct is being investigated
under this Act, and shall allow any person
against whom any charge is made in the
course of such investigation, to be represented
by counsel. R.S., c. 154, s. 12.

**13.** NO report shall be made against any
person until reasonable notice has been given
to him of the charge of misconduct alleged
against him and he has been allowed full
opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel. R.S., c. 154, s. 13.

## PART IV

## INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS AND

## TRIBUNALS

**14.** (1) The Governor in Council may,
he deems it expedient, confer upon
an international commission or tribunal all or
any of the powers conferred upon commis
sioners under Part I.
(2) The powers so conferred may be exer
cised by such commission or tribunal in
Canada, subject to such limitations and
restrictions as the Governor in Council may
impose, in respect to all matters that are
within the jurisdiction of such commission or
tribunal. R.S., c. 154, s. 14.
