
# CHAPTER M4
Act to regulate the inspection and sale of
binder twine and to establish weight of
bushel for certain commodities commonly
sold by the bushel

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Inspection
and Sale Act. R.S., c. 155, s. 1.

**2.** Parts I and III apply respectively to
binder twine and weight of bushel for certain
commodities. R.S., c. 155, s. 2.

## INTERPRETATION

**3.** In this Act
"dealer" means the person or firm manufac
turing or importing or selling or having in
possession for sale any binder twine ;
"inspector" means any person designated by
the Minister to carry out this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"official analyst" means any person designat
ed by the Minister to perform tests necessary
to carry out this Act. R.S., c. 155, s. 3.

**4.** The Minister may
  * (_a_) designate such official analysts and
inspectors as are deemed necessary to carry
out this Act, and
(6) make such regulations for any other
purpose deemed by him necessary for
carrying out this Act. R.S., c. 155, s. 4.

**5.** There may be appointed in the manner
authorized by law such inspectors and analysts
as the Minister may consider necessary for
the effective carrying out of this Act. R.S., c.
155, s. 5.

## PARTI

## BINDER TWINE

**6.** (1) Every ball of binder twine sold or
offered for sale in Canada shall be properly
and correctly labelled with the name of the
dealer and the number of feet of twine per
pound in the ball.
(2) Binder twine manufactured for export
only and not to be sold for use in Canada
need not be so labelled, but the onus of proof
that any unlabelled binder twine is manufac
tured for export only rests upon the dealer,
carrier or other person in whose possession the
binder twine is found. R.S., c. 155, s. 6.

**7.** N O person shall sell, offer or have in
possession for sale as binder twine in Canada,
any binder twine that has been damaged by
fire or water unless
  * (_a_) in the case of damaged binder twine
that has been reconditioned, the original
tags on the balls of twine have been removed
and replaced with tags labelled in accord
ance with section 6, and in addition with
the words "Reconditioned Binder Twine",
and the original markings on the sacks
containing the damaged binder twine have
been obliterated or concealed, and the sacks,
or labels durably attached thereto, labelled
in a conspicuous manner "Reconditioned
Binder Twine" ; or
  * (_b_) in the case of damaged binder twine
that has not been reconditioned, the original
tags on the balls have been removed and
replaced with tags labelled in accordance
with section 6, and in addition with the
words "Damaged Binder Twine", and the
original markings on the sacks containing
such damaged binder twine have been
obliterated or concealed, and the sacks, or
labels durably attached thereto, labelled in
a conspicuous manner "Damaged Binder
Twine". R.S., c. 155, s. 7.

**8.** If it is shown that in any lot of binder
twine one ball in every twenty or less number
of balls in the lot is not properly and correctly
labelled, it is prima facie evidence that all the
balls in the lot are not properly and correctly
labelled, and the burden of proof lies upon
the dealer to show that the balls in the lot
are properly and correctly labelled. U.S., c.
155, s. 8.

**9.** An inspector charged with the enforce
ment of this Act may enter upon any premises
and examine any bales or balls of binder
twine, whether such bales or balls are on the
premises of a dealer or are on other premises,
or are in the possession of any common carrier
or other carrier. R.S., c. 155, s. 9.

**10.** (1) A dealer who violates any of the
provisions of this Part or regulations there
under is liable upon summary conviction, for
a first offence, to a fine of not less than five
dollars and not more than one hundred
dollars, and for each subsequent offence to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars and not
more than five hundred dollars.
(2) No deficiency in the number of feet of
twine contained in any ball shall be deemed
to be a violation of this Part unless it exceeds
five per cent of the length indicated by the
label. R.S., c. 155, s. 10.

**11.** Balls of binder twine not properly and
correctly labelled may be seized by an
inspector and confiscated and disposed of as
directed by the Minister, whose decision
therein is final. R.S., c. 155, s. 11.

**12.** Every person who obstructs an inspector
or other person charged with the enforcement
of this Act from entering any premises to
examine binder twine as provided by this
Part, or who refuses to permit such examina
tion, is liable on summary conviction to a
payment of such penalty and costs is liable
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, unless such penalty is sooner paid.
R.S., c. 155, s. 12.

## PART II

## FLAX FIBRES

**13.** In this Part
"flax fibre" means the scutched product of
retted flax straw that may be used in
spinning;
"inspection certificate" means a certificate
issued with respect to flax fibre pursuant to
this Part. R.S., c. 155, s. 13.

**14.** No person shall
  * (_a_) export from Canada ; or
  * (_fe_) send, ship, take, bring, or carry, cause
to be sent, shipped, taken, brought or
carried to or into any province from or out
of any other province ;
any flax fibre, unless it is inspected, graded,
marked or designated, and labelled in accord
ance with the regulations made under this
Part. R.S., c. 155, s. 14.

**15.** The Minister may make regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing standards of grade, class or
qualit3 for flax fibre and the names or
marks that may be used to designate such
grade, class or quality;
(6) providing for inspection, grading and
labelling of flax fibre, the form, issue and
use of inspection certificates, and prescribing
inspection fees ; and
  * (_c_) generally for carrying any of the
purposes or provisions of this Part into
effect. R.S., c. 155, s. 15.

**16.** (i) Every inspection certificate is evi
dence of the facts therein stated and shall be
in evidence without proof of any
or the official character of any
appearing to have signed the same.
(2) No person shall attach or apply any
inspection certificate to any flax fibre unless
the inspection certificate was issued with
respect to such flax fibre.
(3) No person shall alter or falsify any
inspection certificate. R.S., c. 156, s. 16.

**17.** Every person who violates any provi
sion of this Part or any regulation made
under this Part is guilty of an offence and
liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding two hundred dollars or to impris
onment for a term not exceeding six months,
or to both. R.S., c. 155, s. 17.

## PART III

## WEIGHT OF BUSHEL

**18.** In contracts for the sale and delivery
of any of the undermentioned articles the
legal weight per bushel shall be as follows:
R.S., c. 155, s. 18.

**19.** Every person who violates anv provi-
sion of this Part is, for a first offence, liable,
on summary conviction, to a penalty not
exceeding twenty-five dollars, and for each
subsequent offence to a penalty not exceeding
fifty dollars. R.S., c. 155, s. 19.
DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES

**20.** Moneys derived from penalties
imposed under this Act, or derived from the
confiscation of any binder twine under this
Act, shall be paid to the Receiver General.
R.S., c. 155, s. 20.
