
# CHAPTER M 7
Act respecting the Department of Insur-
ance

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of Insurance Act. R.S., c. 70, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Department" means the Department of
Insurance ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance;
"Superintendent" means the Superintendent
of Insurance. U.S., c. 70, s. 2.

**3.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Insurance over which the Minister shall
preside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
direction of the Department. U.S., c. 70, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer called the Superintendent
of Insurance to be the deputy head of the
Department and to hold office during pleas
ure.
(2) The Superintendent shall be paid such
salary as may be authorized by law. R.S., c.
70, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Minister has the administration
of the Acts specified in the schedule and also
of all orders or regulations passed or made
under any of the said Acts.
(2) The Superintendent shall act under the
instructions of the Minister and shall examine
into, and report to the Minister from time to
time upon, all matters connected with the
administration of each of the said Acts and
of the orders or regulations passed or made
thereunder. R.S., c. 70, s, 6.

**6.** The Superintendent or any officer or
clerk under him shall not. directly or
indirectly, be interested as a shareholder in
any insurance company, trust company or
loan company doing business in Canada or in
any province of Canada, or registered or
licensed under any of the Acts respecting
companies specified in the schedule. R.S., c.
70, s. 7.

**7.** (1) The Superintendent shall annually.
as soon as may be after the close of each fiscal
year, by reference to the public accounts, and
by such further inquiry or investigation as he
may deem necessary, ascertain and certify the
total amount of the expenditure incurred by
the Government for or in connection with the
administration of the Acts respecting insur
ance companies specified in the schedule, the
Loan Companies Act. and the Trust Companies
Act. respectively, during the last preceding
fiscal year, and the amount of the expenditure
so ascertained and certified by the Superin
tendent is final and conclusive for all purposes
of this section.
(2) The Superintendent shall also before
the 31st day of December in each fiscal year
ascertain from the annual statements filed
under the requirements of the said Acts and
from such other information as may be
necessary or available,
  * (_a_) the total amount of net premiums
received in Canada during the last preceding
calendar year by each company registered
under the said Acts respecting insurance
companies, or any of them, and by each
company not so registered but transacting
the business of life insurance thereunder
and deduct therefrom the amount of the
dividends paid or allowed by each such
company to its policyholders in Canada
during the said calendar year; and
(6) the total amount of income received
during the last preceding calendar year by
each loan company licensed under the Loan
Companies Act ; and
  * (_c_) the total amount of income received
during the last preceding calendar year by
each trust company licensed under the Trust
Companies Act;
and the finding of the Superintendent as to
the amount of the net receipts resulting from
the said deduction and as to the amounts of
income received as aforesaid, when certified
by his hand, is final and conclusive.
(3) Thereupon the Superintendent shall
ascertain the ratio or percentage that the total
expenditure incurred in the administration of
the said Acts respecting insurance companies,
of the Loan Companies Act, and of the Trust
Companies Act, respectively, so found and
certified is of the total net receipts of the said
insurance companies, the total income of the
said loan companies and the total income of
the said trust companies, respectively, and he
shall cause an assessment to be prepared
  * (_a_) against each of the said insurance
companies of an amount equivalent to such
percentage of the said net receipts of each
company as the total expenditure incurred
in the administration of the said Acts
respecting insurance companies is of the
total net receipts of all such companies;
(6) against each of the said loan companies
of an amount equivalent to such percentage
of the said income of each company as the
total expenditure incurred in the adminis
tration of the Loan Companies Act is of the
total income of all such companies ; and
  * (_c_) against each of the said trust companies
of an amount equivalent to such percentage
of the said income of each company as the
total expenditure incurred in the adminis
tration of the Trust Companies Act is of the
total income of all such companies;
and such assessment, when certified by the
Superintendent, is binding upon the said
companies, and each of them, and is final
and conclusive.
(4) The amount so assessed against each
Majesty, and is payable upon demand of the
Superintendent, and may be recovered as a
debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.
R.S.,c. 70,s.8.
Annual report g. The Minister shall lay before Parliament
within thirty days after the commencement
of each session the annual report of the
Superintendent made to the Minister under
each of the Acts specified in the schedule.
R.S., c. 70,s.9.

## SCHEDULE
Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act
Civil Service Insurance Act
Foreign Insurance Companies Act
Loan Companies Act
Trust Companies Act
R.S., c. 70, Sch.
