
## CHAPTER I- 18
An Act respecting interest

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Interest
Act. R.S., c. 156, s. 1.

## RATE OF INTEREST

**2.** Except as otherwise provided by this or
by any other Act of the Parliament of Canada,
any person may stipulate for, allow and exact,
on any contract or agreement whatever, any
rate of interest or discount that is agreed
upon. R.S., c. 156, s. 2.

**3.** Except as to liabilities existing immedi
ately before the 7th day of July 1900,
whenever any interest is payable by the
agreement of parties or by law, and no rate is
fixed by such agreement or by law, the rate
of interest shall be five per cent per annum.
R.S., c. 156, s. 3.

**4.** Except as to mortgages on real estate,
whenever any interest is, by the terms of any
written or printed contract, whether under
seal or not, made payable at a rate or
percentage per day, week, month, or at any
rate or percentage for any period less than a
year, no interest exceeding the rate or
percentage of five per cent per annum shall
be chargeable, payable or recoverable on any
part of the principal money unless the contract
contains an express statement of the yearly
rate or percentage of interest to which such
other rate or percentage is equivalent. R.S., c.
156, s. 4.

**5.** If any sum is paid on account of any
not chargeable, payable or recoverable
section 4, such sum may be recovered
or deducted from any principal or
interest payable under such contract. R.S., c.
156, s. 5.

## INTEREST ON MONEYS SECURED BY

## MORTGAGE ON REAL ESTATE

**6.** Whenever any principal money or inter
est secured by mortgage of real estate is, by
the mortgage, made payable on the sinking
fund plan, or on any plan under which the
payments of principal money and interest are
blended, or on any plan that involves an
allowance of interest on stipulated repay
ments, no interest whatever shall be charge
able, payable or recoverable, on any part of
the principal money advanced, unless the
mortgage contains a statement showing the
amount of such principal money and the rate
of interest chargeable thereon, calculated
yearly or half-yearly, not in advance. R.S., c.
156, s. 6.

**7.** Whenever the rate of interest shown in
the statement mentioned in section 6 is less
than the rate of interest that would be
chargeable by virtue of any other provision,
calculation or stipulation in the mortgage, no
greater rate of interest shall be chargeable,
payable or recoverable, on the principal
money advanced, than the rate shown in such
statement. R.S., c. 156, s. 7.

**8.** (1) No fine or penalty or rate of interest
shall be stipulated for, taken, reserved or
exacted on any arrears of principal or interest
secured by mortgage of real estate, that has
the effect of increasing the charge on any
such arrears beyond the rate of interest
payable on principal money not in arrears.
(2) Nothing in this section has the effect of
prohibiting a contract for the payment of
interest on arrears of interest or principal at
any rate not greater than the rate payable on
principal money not in arrears. R.S., c. 156,
s. 8.

**9.** If any SU m is paid on account of any
i nterestj fi ne or penalty not chargeable,
payable or recoverable under section 6, 7 or 8,
such sum may be recovered back, or deducted
from any other interest, fine or penalty
chargeable, payable or recoverable on the
principal. R.S., c. 156, s. 9.
. 1Q. (\) Whenever any principal money or
.
interest secured by mortgage of real estate is
not, under the terms of the mortgage, payable
until a time more than five years after the
date of the mortgage, then, if at any time
after the expiration of such five years, any
person liable to pay or entitled to redeem the
mortgage tenders or pays, to the person
entitled to receive the money, the amount
due for principal money and interest to the
time of payment, as calculated under sections
6 to 9, together with three months further
interest in lieu of notice, no further interest
shall be chargeable, payable or recoverable at
any time thereafter on the principal money
or interest due under the mortgage.
(2) Nothing in this section applies to any
mortgage upon real estate given by a joint
stock company or other corporation, nor to
any debenture issued by any such company
or corporation, for the payment of which
security has been given by way of mortgage
on real estate. R.S., c. 156, s. 10.

**11.** Sections 6 to 10 apply only to moneys
so secured by mortgage executed after the 1st
day of July 1880. R.S., c. 156, s. 11.
MANITOBA. BRITISH COLUMBIA,

## SASKATCHEWAN. ALBERTA AND

## THE TERRITORIES

**12.** Sections 13, 14 and 15 apply to the
Provinces of Manitoba, British Columbia,
Saskatchewan and Alberta and to the North
west Territories and the Yukon Territory
only. R.S., c. 156, s. 12.

**13.** Every judgment debt shall bear interest
at the rate of five per cent per annum until it
is satisfied. R.S., c. 156, s. 13.

**14.** Unless it is otherwise ordered by the
court, such interest shall be calculated from
the time of the rendering of the verdict or of
the giving of the judgment, as the case may
be, notwithstanding that the entry of judg
ment upon the verdict or upon the giving of
the judgment has been suspended by any
proceedings either in the same court or in
appeal. R.S., c. 156, s. 14.

**15.** Any sum of money or any costs, charges
or expenses made payable by or under any
judgment, decree, rule or order of any court
whatever in any civil proceeding shall for the
purposes of this Act be deemed to be a
judgment debt. R.S., c. 156, s. 15.
