Commission

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** T n i s Act may be cited as the International
Boundary Commission Act. 1960, c. 31, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"boundary" means the international bound
ary between Canada and the United States
as determined and marked by the Commis
sion;
"boundary monument" means a buoy, post,
tablet, cairn or other object or structure
placed, erected or maintained by the
Commission to mark the boundary and
includes a reference monument, triangula-
tion station or other marker or structure
placed, erected or maintained by the
Commission to assist in determining the
boundary ;
"Commission" means the International
Boundary Commission established pursuant
to the treaty of 1908 ;
"treaty of 1908" means the treaty between
His Majesty King Edward VII and the
United States respecting the demarcation
of the international boundary between the
United States and Canada signed at
Washington on the llth day of April 1908;
"work" means any ditch, earthwork, building
or structure of any description or any lines
of telephone, telegraph or power, including
posts, piers or abutments for sustaining or
protecting the wires or cables of those lines.
1960, c. 31, s. 2.

## POWERS OF COMMISSION

**3.** For the purpose of maintaining an
effective boundary line between Canada and
the United States, the Commission, its officers,
employees and agents may at any time
  * (_a_) enter upon and pass over the land of
any person in order to gain access to the
boundary or to survey the boundary ;
(6) erect and maintain boundary monu
ments upon the land of any person ; and
  * (_c_) clear from the land of any person such
trees and underbrush as the Commission
deems necessary to maintain a vista ten
feet in width from the boundary. 1960, c.
31,8.3.

**4.** (1) Any work or any addition to a work
that is, after the 6th day of July 1960,
constructed or placed within ten feet of the
boundary without the permission of the
Commission may be removed and destroyed
by the Commission, its officers, employees or
agents, and the materials contained in the
work or the addition to a work may be sold,
given away or otherwise disposed of, and the
costs of and incidental to the removal,
destruction or disposition of the work or the
addition to a work, deducting therefrom any
sum that may be realized by sale or otherwise,
are recoverable with costs by Her Majesty
from the owner as a debt to the Crown.
(2) In this section "owner" includes the
person authorizing or otherwise responsible
for the construction or placement of any work
or any addition to a work referred to in
subsection (1), and the actual or reputed
owner or person in possession or claiming
ownership thereof for the time being, and all
or any of such persons jointly and severally.
1960, c. 31,s.4.

## PROHIBITION AND PENALTIES

**5.** Except with the permission of the
Commission, no person shall
  * (_a_) construct or place within ten feet of the
boundary any work or any addition to a
work, or
(6) enlarge any work that was on the 6th
day of July 1960 within ten feet of the
boundary. 1960, c. 31, s. 5.

**6.** No person shall obstruct or hinder a
member of the Commission or an officer,
employee or agent of the Commission in the
carrying out of his duties or functions under
this Act. 1960, c. 31, s. 6.

**7.** Except with the permission of the
Commission, no person shall
  * (_a_) pull down, deface, alter or remove a
boundary monument erected or maintained
by the Commission ; or
(6) have a boundary monument or any
portion thereof in his possession or custody.
1960, c. 31,s.7.

**8.** Every person who, or whose employee
or agent, has violated any provision of this
Act is guilty of an offence and liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months or to both.
1960, c. 31,s.8.

## GENERAL

**9.** For the purposes of subsection 3(1) of
the Crown Liability Act, a tort committed by
the person appointed by the Governor General
in Council to be the Canadian member of the
Commission while acting in the scope of his
duties or employment shall be deemed to
have been committed by a servant of the
Crown while acting within the scope of his
duties or employment. 1960, c. 31, s. 9.
jo. Her Majesty is bound by this Act. 1960,
c. 31, s. 10.
