
## CHAPTER 1-22
An Act respecting the construction, operation
and maintenance of international river
improvements

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the International
River Improvements Act. 1955, c. 47, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"international river" means water flowing
from any place in Canada to any place
outside Canada ;
"international river improvement" means a
dam, obstruction, canal, reservoir or other
work the purpose or effect of which is
  * (_a_) to increase, decrease or alter the natural
flow of an international river, and
(6) to interfere with, alter or affect the
actual or potential use of the international
river outside Canada ;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act. 1955,
c. 47, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 41 ; SOR/69-262.

## REGULATIONS

**3.** The Governor in Council may, for the
of developing and utilizing the water
of Canada in the national interest,
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the construction, operation
and maintenance of international river
improvements ;
(6) respecting the issue, cancellation and
suspension of licences for the construction,
operation and maintenance of international
river improvements ;
  * (_c_) prescribing fees for licences issued under
this Act ; and
  * (_d_) excepting any international river
improvements from the operation of this
Act. 1955, c. 47, s. 3.
LICENCES

**4.** No person shall construct, operate or
maintain an international river improvement
unless he holds a valid licence therefor issued
under this Act. 1955, c. 47, s. 4.

## PENALTIES

**5.** Every person who violates this Act or
any regulation is guilty of an offence and is
liable
  * (_a_) on conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding five thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years, or to both ; or
  * (_b_) on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both. 1955, c. 47, s. 5.

**6.** The Governor in Council may order that
any international river improvement or part
thereof constructed, operated or maintained
in violation of this Act or the regulations be
forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada,
and any thing so forfeited may be removed,
or otherwise disposed of as the
in Council directs ; and the costs of
and incidental to such removal, destruction
disposition, less any sum that may be
from the sale or other disposition
are recoverable by Her Majesty in
of Canada from the owner as a debt due
to the Crown. 1955, c. 47, s. 6.

## GENERAL

**7.** This Act does not apply in respect of an
international river improvement
  * (_a_) constructed under the authority of an
Act of the Parliament of Canada,
  * (_b_) situated within boundary waters as
defined in the treaty relating to boundary
waters and questions arising between
Canada and the United States signed at
Washington on the llth day of January
1909, or
  * (_c_) constructed, operated or maintained
solely for domestic, sanitary or irrigation
purposes or other similar consumptive uses.
1955, c. 47, s. 7.

**8.** Her Majesty in right of Canada or a
province is bound by this Act. 1955, c. 47, s. 8.

**9.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act
an international river improvement is subject
to the same laws to which it would be subject
if it were a river improvement within the
legislative jurisdiction of the legislature of
the province in which it is situated except in
so far as such provincial laws are repugnant
to this Act or the regulations. 1955, c. 47, s.

**10.**

**10.** As soon as practicable after the 31st
day of December of each year, the Minister
shall prepare and lay before Parliament a
report of the operations under this Act for
that year. 1955, c. 47, s. 11.
