
## CHAPTER 1-23
An Act respecting the interpretation of
statutes

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Interpreta
tion Act. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"Act" means an Act of the Parliament of
Canada ;
"enact" includes to issue, make or establish;
"enactment" means an Act or regulation or
any portion of an Act or regulation ;
"public officer" includes any person in the
public service of Canada
  * (_a_) who is authorized by or under an
enactment to do or enforce the doing of an
act or thing or to exercise a power, or
(6) upon whom a duty is imposed by or
under an enactment ;
"regulation" includes an order, regulation,
order in council, order prescribing regula
tions, rule, rule of court, form, tariff of costs
or fees, letters patent, commission, warrant,
proclamation, by-law, resolution or other
instrument issued, made or established
  * (_a_) in the execution of a power conferred
by or under the authority of an Act, or
(6) by or under the authority of the
Governor in Council ;
"repeal" includes revoke or cancel.
otherwise ceased to have effect shall be
deemed to have been repealed. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 2.
APPLICATION

**3.** (1) Every provision of this Act extends
and applies, unless a contrary intention
appears, to every enactment, whether enacted
before or after the commencement of this Act.
(2) The provisions of this Act apply to the
interpretation of this Act.
(3) Nothing in this Act excludes the applica-
,
r i &amp;lt;
tlon to an enactment of a rule of construction
applicable thereto and not inconsistent with
this Act. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 3.

## ENACTING CLAUSE OF ACTS

**4.** (i) The enacting clause of an Act may
be in the following form :
"Her Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate and House of Commons
of Canada, enacts as follows:".
(2) The enacting clause of an Act shall
follow the preamble, if any, and the various
provisions within the purview or body of the
Act shall follow in a concise and enunciative
form. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 4.

## OPERATION
Royal Assent

**5.** (1) The Clerk of the Parliaments shall
endorse on every Act, immediately after the
title thereof, the day, month and year when
the Act was assented to in Her Majesty s
name ; such endorsement shall be taken to be
a part of the Act, and the date of such assent
shall be the date of the commencement of the
Act, if no other date of commencement is
therein provided.
(2) Where an Act contains a provision that
the Act or any portion thereof is to come into
on a day later than the date of assent
to the Act, such provision shall be deemed to
have come into force on the date of assent to
the Act.
(3) Where an Act provides that certain
provisions thereof are to come or shall be
deemed to have come into force on a day
other than the date of assent to the Act, the
remaining provisions of the Act shall be
deemed to have come into force on the date
of assent to the Act. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 5.
Day Fixed for Commencement or Repeal

**6.** (1) Where an enactment is expressed to
come into force on a particular day, it shall
be construed as coming into force upon the
expiration of the previous day ; and where an
enactment is expressed to expire, lapse or
otherwise cease to have effect on a particular
day, it shall be construed as ceasing to have
effect upon the commencement of the follow
ing day.
(2) Every enactment that is not expressed
to come into force on a particular day shall
be construed as coming into force upon the
expiration of the day immediately before the
day the enactment was enacted. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 6.
Regulation Prior to Commencement

**7.** Where an enactment is not in force and
it contains provisions conferring power to
make regulations or do any other thing, that
power may, for the purpose of making the
enactment effective upon its commencement,
be exercised at any time before its commence
ment, but a regulation so made or a thing so
done has no effect until the commencement
of the enactment except in so far as may be
necessary to make the enactment effective
upon its commencement. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 7.
Territorial Operation

**8.** (1) Every enactment applies to the whole
of Canada, unless it is otherwise expressed
therein.
(2) Where an enactment that does not apply
the whole of Canada is amended, no
in the amending enactment applies
any part of Canada to which the amended
does not apply, unless it is therein
provided that the amending enactment
applies to such part of Canada or to the whole
of Canada.
(3) Every Act of the Parliament of Canada
now in force enacted prior to the llth day of
December 1931 that in terms or by necessary
or reasonable implication was intended, as to
the whole or any part thereof, to have extra
territorial operation, shall be construed as if
at the date of its enactment the Parliament
of Canada then had full power to make laws
having extra-territorial operation as provided
by the Statute of Westminster, 1931. R.S., c.
107,s.2; 1967-68, c. 7, s. 8.

## RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Private Acts

**9.** No provision in a private Act affects the
rights of any person, except only as therein
mentioned or referred to. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 9.
Law Always Speaking

**10.** The law shall be considered as always
speaking, and whenever a matter or thing is
expressed in the present tense, it shall be
applied to the circumstances as they arise, so
that effect may be given to the enactment
and every part thereof according to its true
spirit, intent and meaning. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 10.
Enactments Remedial

**11.** Every enactment shall be deemed
remedial, and shall be given such fair, large
and liberal construction and interpretation as
best ensures the attainment of its objects.
1967-68, c. 7, s. 11.
Preambles and Marginal Notes

**12.** The preamble of an enactment shall
be read as a part thereof intended to assist in
explaining its purport and object. 1967-68, c.
7, s. 12.

**13.** Marginal notes and references to former
in an enactment after the end of
section or other division thereof form no
of the enactment, but shall be deemed to
1967-68, c. 7, s. 13.
Application of Definitions

**14.** (1) Definitions or rules of interpreta
tion contained in an enactment apply to the
construction of the provisions of the enactment
that contain those definitions or rules of
interpretation, as well as to the other
provisions of the enactment.
(2) Where an enactment contains an inter
pretation section or provision, it shall be read
and construed
  * (_a_) as being applicable only if the contrary
intention does not appear, and
(6) as being applicable to all other enact
ments relating to the same subject-matter
unless the contrary intention appears. 1967-
68, c. 7, s. 14.

**15.** Where an enactment confers power to
make regulations, expressions used in the
regulations have the same respective meanings
as in the enactment conferring the power.
1967-68, c. 7, s. 15.
Her Majesty

**16.** No enactment is binding on Her
Majesty or affects Her Majesty or Her
Majesty s rights or prerogatives in any
manner, except only as therein mentioned or
referred to. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 16.
Proclamations

**17.** (1) Where an enactment authorizes the
issue of a proclamation, the proclamation
shall be understood to be a proclamation of
the Governor in Council.
(2) Where the Governor General is author
ized to issue a proclamation, the proclamation
shall be understood to be a proclamation
issued under an order of the Governor in
Council, but it is not necessary to mention in
the proclamation that it is issued under such
order.
(3) Where the Governor in Council has
authorized the issue of a proclamation, the
may purport to have been issued
the day its issue was so authorized, and
the day on which it so purports to have been
issued shall be deemed to be the day on which
the proclamation takes effect.
(4) Where an enactment is expressed to
come into force on a day to be fixed by
proclamation, judicial notice shall be taken
of the issue of the proclamation and the day
fixed thereby without being specially pleaded.
1967-68, c. 7, s. 17.
Oaths
jg. (1) Where by an enactment or by a
rule of the Senate or House of Commons,
evidence under oath is authorized or required
to be taken, or an oath is authorized or
directed to be made, taken or administered,
the oath may be administered, and a certificate
of its having been made, taken or administered
may be given by any one authorized by the
enactment or rule to take the evidence, or by
a judge of any court, a notary public, a justice
of the peace, or a commissioner for taking
affidavits, having authority or jurisdiction
within the place where the oath is adminis
tered.
(2) Where power is conferred upon a justice
^ ^ e P eace to administer an oath or
affirmation, or to take an affidavit or
declaration, the power may be exercised by a
notary public or a commissioner for taking
oaths. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 18.
Reports to Parliament

**19.** Where an Act requires a report or other
document to be laid before Parliament and,
in compliance with the Act, a particular report
or document has been laid before Parliament
at a session thereof, nothing in the Act shall
be construed as requiring the same report or
document to be laid before Parliament at any
subsequent session thereof. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 19.
Corporations

**20.** (1) Words establishing a corporation
e construed
  * (_a_) to vest in the corporation power to sue
and be sued, to contract and be contracted
with by its corporate name, to have a
common seal and to alter or change it at
pleasure, to have perpetual succession, to
acquire and hold personal property or
movables for the purposes for which the
corporation is established and to alienate
the same at pleasure ;
(6) in the case of a corporation having a
name consisting of an English and a French
form or a combined English and French
form, to vest in the corporation power to
use either the English or the French form
of its name or both forms and to show on
its seal both the English and French forms
of its name or have two seals, one showing
the English and the other showing the
French form of its name ;
  * (_c_) to vest in a majority of the members of
the corporation the power to bind the others
by their acts ; and
  * (_d_) to exempt from personal liability for its
debts, obligations or acts such individual
members of the corporation as do not
contravene the provisions of the enactment
establishing the corporation.
(2) Where an enactment establishes a cor
poration and in each of the English and
French versions of the enactment the name
of the corporation is in the form only of the
language of that version, the name of the
corporation shall consist of the form of its
name in each of the versions of the enactment.
(3) No corporation shall be deemed to be
authorized to carry on the business of banking
unless such power is expressly conferred upon
it by the enactment establishing the corpora
tion. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 20.
Majority and Quorum

**21.** (1) Where an act or thing is required
or authorized to be done by more than two
persons, a majority of them may do it.
(2) Where an enactment establishes a board,
court, commission or other body consisting of
three or more members (in this section called
an "association"),
  * (_a_) at a meeting of the association, a
number of members of the association equal
to
  * (_i_) at least one-half of the number of
members provided for by the enactment,
if that number is a fixed number, and
  * (_ii_) if the number of members provided
for by the enactment is not a fixed
number but is within a range having a
maximum or minimum, at least one-half
of the number of members in office if
that number is within the range,
constitutes a quorum ;
  * (_b_) an act or thing done by a majority of
the members of the association present at a
meeting, if the members present constitute
a quorum, shall be deemed to have been
done by the association; and
  * (_c_) a vacancy in the membership of the
association does not invalidate the consti
tution of the association or impair the right
of the members in office to act, if the
number of members in office is not less
than a quorum. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 21.
Appointment, Retirement and Powers of
Officers

**22.** (1) Every public officer appointed
before, on or after the 1st day of September
1967, by or under the authority of an
enactment or otherwise, shall be deemed to
have been appointed to hold office during
pleasure only, unless it is otherwise expressed
in the enactment or in his commission or
appointment.
(2) Where an appointment is made by
instrument under the Great Seal, the instru
ment may purport to have been issued on or
after the day its issue was authorized, and the
day on which it so purports to have been
issued shall be deemed to be the day on which
the appointment takes effect.
(3) Where in any enactment there is
authority to appoint a person to a position or
to engage the services of a person, otherwise
than by instrument under the Great Seal, the
instrument of appointment or engagement
may be expressed to be effective on or after
the day on which such person commenced the
performance of the duties of the position or
commenced the performance of the services,
and the day on which it is so expressed to be
effective, unless that day is more than sixty
days before the day on which the instrument
is issued, shall be deemed to be the day on
which the appointment or engagement takes
effect.
(4) Where a person is appointed to an
office, the appointing authority may fix, vary
or terminate his remuneration.
(5) Where a person is appointed to an office
ff ... . .
effective on a specified day, or where the
appointment of a person is terminated
effective on a specified day, the appointment
or termination, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to have been effected immediately
upon the expiration of the previous day. 1967-
68, c. 7, s. 22.
23 ^ Wordsauthorizin i tnea PP intment
Q ^ & p u jjjj c o ffj cer to ^Q]^ o ffi ce during
pleasure include the power of
  * (_a_) terminating his appointment or remov
ing or suspending him,
(6) re-appointing or reinstating him, and
  * (_c_) appointing another in his stead or to
act in his stead,
in the discretion of the authority in whom
the power of appointment is vested.
(2) Words directing or empowering a Min-
^ ter ^ the Crown to do an act or thing, or
otherwise applying to him by his name of
office, include a Minister acting for him, or,
if the office is vacant, a Minister designated
to act in the office by or under the authority
of an order in council, and also his successors
in the office, and his or their deputy, but
nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to authorize a deputy to exercise any authority
conferred upon a Minister to make a regulation
as defined in the Regulations Act.
(3) Words directing or empowering any
ublic officer to do an &amp;gt; act or thing or
p.
applying to him by his name of
include his successors in the office and
or their deputy.
(4) Where a power is conferred or a duty
imposed on the holder of an office as such,
the power may be exercised and the duty
shall be performed by the person for the time
being charged with the execution of the
powers and duties of the office. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 23.
Evidence

**24.** (1) Where an enactment provides that
a document is evidence of a fact without
anything in the context to indicate that the
document is conclusive evidence, then, in any
judicial proceedings, the document is admiss
ible in evidence and the fact shall be deemed
to be established in the absence of any
evidence to the contrary.
(2) Every copy of an enactment having
printed thereon what purports to be the name
or title of the Queen s Printer and Controller
of Stationery or the Queen s Printer shall be
deemed to be a copy purporting to be printed
by the Queen s Printer for Canada. 1967-68,
c. 7, s. 24 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.
Computation of Time

**25.** (1) Where the time limited for the
doing of a thing expires or falls upon a
holiday, the thing may be done on the day
next following that is not a holiday.
(2) Where there is a reference to a number
of clear days or "at least" a number of days
between two events, in calculating the number
of days there shall be excluded the days on
which the events happen.
(3) Where there is a reference to a number
of days, not expressed to be clear days,
between two events, in calculating the number
of days there shall be excluded the day on
which the first event happens and there shall
be included the day on which the second
event happens.
(4) Where a time is expressed to begin or
end at, on or with a specified day, or to
continue to or until a specified day, the time
includes that day.
(5) Where a time is expressed to begin after
or to be from a specified day, the time does
not include that day.
(6) Where anything is to be done within a
time after, from, of or before a specified day,
the time does not include that day.
, (7) Where there . . is a reference to a period - -
time consisting of a number of months
after or before a specified day, the number of
months shall be counted from, but not so as
to include, the month in which the specified
day falls, and the period shall be reckoned as
being limited by and including
  * (_a_) the day immediately after or before the
specified day, according as the period
follows or precedes the specified day ; and
  * (_b_) the day in the last month so counted
having the same calendar number as the
specified day, but if such last month has no
day with the same calendar number, then
the last day of that month.
  * (_g_) Where there is a reference to time
expressed as a specified time of the day, the
time shall be taken to mean standard time.
(9) A person shall be deemed not to have
attained a specified number of years of age
until the commencement of the anniversary,
of the same number, of the day of his birth.
1967-68, c. 7, s. 25.
Miscellaneous Rules

**26.** (1) Where anything is required or
authorized to be done by or before a judge,
magistrate, justice of the peace, or any
functionary or officer, it shall be done by or
before one whose jurisdiction or powers extend
to the place where such thing is to be done.
(2) Where power is given to a person, officer
or functionary, to do or enforce the doing of
any act or thing, all such powers shall be
to be also given as are necessary to
the person, officer or functionary to
or enforce the doing of the act or thing.
(3) Where a power is conferred or a duty
the power may be exercised and the
duty shall be performed from time to time as
occasion requires.
(4) Where a power is conferred to make
regulations, the power shall be construed as
including a power, exercisable in the like
manner, and subject to the like consent and
conditions, if any, to repeal, amend or vary
the regulations and make others.
(5) Where a form is prescribed, deviations
therefrom, not affecting the substance or
calculated to mislead, do not invalidate the
form used.
(6) Words importing male persons include
female persons and corporations.
(7) Words in the singular include the plural,
and words in the plural include the singular.
  * (_g_) Where a word is defined, other parts of
speech and grammatical forms of the same
word have corresponding meanings. 1967-68,
c. 7, s. 26.
Offences

**27.** (1) Where an enactment creates an
t t
offence,
( a ) the offence shall be deemed to be an
indictable offence if the enactment provides
that the offender may be prosecuted for the
offence by indictment ;
(6) the offence shall be deemed to be one
for which the offender is punishable on
summary conviction if there is nothing in
the context to indicate that the offence is
an indictable offence ; and
  * (_c_) if the offence is one for which the
offender may be prosecuted by indictment
or for which he is punishable on summary
conviction, no person shall be considered to
have been convicted of an indictable offence
by reason only of having been convicted of
the offence on summary conviction.
(2) All the provisions of the Criminal Code
relating to indictable offences apply to
indictable offences created by an enactment,
and all the provisions of the Criminal Code
relating to summary conviction offences apply
to all other offences created by an enactment,
(3) In a commission, proclamation, warrant
or other document relating to criminal law or
procedure in criminal matters
  * (_a_) a reference to an offence for which the
offender may be prosecuted by indictment
shall be construed as a reference to an
indictable offence; and
  * (_b_) a reference to any other offence shall be
construed as a reference to an offence for
which the offender is punishable on sum
mary conviction. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 27.
DEFINITIONS

**28.** In every enactment
"Act", as meaning an Act of a legislature,
includes an ordinance of the Yukon Terri
tory or of the Northwest Territories ;
bank" or "chartered bank" means a bank to
which the Bank Act applies;
broadcasting" means any radiocommunica-
tion in which the transmissions are intended
for direct reception by the general public ;
commencement", when used with reference
to an enactment, means the time at which
the enactment comes into force ;
Commonwealth", "British Commonwealth",
"Commonwealth of Nations" or "British
Commonwealth of Nations" means the
association of countries named in the
schedule, which schedule may be amended
from time to time by proclamation of the
Governor in Council
  * (_a_) by adding thereto the name of any
country recognized by such proclamation to
be a member of the Commonwealth, or
  * (_b_) by deleting therefrom the name of any
country recognized by such proclamation to
be no longer a member of the Common
wealth ;
and "Commonwealth country" means a
country that is a member of the association
of such countries ;
Commonwealth and Dependent Territories"
means the several Commonwealth countries
and their colonies, possessions, dependen
cies, protectorates, protected states, con-
application to the Provinces of Saskatche
wan, Alberta and Newfoundland means,
"district court"
;
diplomatic or consular officer" includes an
ambassador, envoy, minister, charge d af
faires, counsellor, secretary, attache, consul-
general, consul, vice-consul, pro-consul,
consular agent, acting consul-general, acting
consul, acting vice-consul, acting consular
agent, high commissioner, permanent dele
gate, adviser, acting high commissioner,
and acting permanent delegate;
fiscal year" or "financial year" means, in
relation to money provided by Parliament,
or the Consolidated Revenue Fund, or the
accounts, taxes or finances of Canada, the
period beginning on and including the 1st
day of April in one year and ending on and
including the 31st day of March in the next
year ;
Governor", "Governor of Canada", or
"Governor General" means the Governor
General for the time being of Canada, or
other chief executive officer or administrator
for the time being carrying on the Govern
ment of Canada on behalf and in the name
of the Sovereign, by whatever title he is
designated ;
Governor in Council", or "Governor General
in Council" means the Governor General
of Canada, or person administering the
Government of Canada for the time being,
acting by and with the advice of, or by and
with the advice and consent of, or in
conjunction with the Queen s Privy Council
for Canada ;
Great Seal" means the Great Seal of Canada ;
Her Majesty", "His Majesty", "the Queen",
"the King" or "the Crown" means the
Sovereign of the United Kingdom, Canada
and Her other Realms and Territories, and
Head of the Commonwealth ;
Her Majesty s Realms and Territories"
means all realms and territories under the
sovereignty of Her Majesty ;
used in any section shall be
understood to relate to the whole enactment,
and not to that section only;
means any of the following days,
namely, Sunday ; New Year s Day ; Good
Friday ; Easter Monday ; Christmas Day ;
the birthday or the day fixed by proclama
tion for the celebration of the birthday of
the reigning Sovereign; Victoria Day;
Dominion Day ; the first Monday in
September, designated Labour Day;
Remembrance Day ; any day appointed by
proclamation to be observed as a day of
general prayer or mourning or day of public
rejoicing or thanksgiving; and any of the
following additional days, namely :
  * (_a_) in any province, any day appointed by
proclamation of the lieutenant governor of
the province to be observed as a public
holiday or as a day of general prayer or
mourning or day of public rejoicing or
thanksgiving within the province, and any
day that is a non-juridical day by virtue of
an Act of the legislature of the province, and
  * (_b_) in any city, town, municipality or other
organized district, any day appointed as a
civic holiday by resolution of the council or
other authority charged with the adminis
tration of the civic or municipal affairs of
the city, town, municipality or district ;
"legislature", "legislative council" or "legis
lative assembly" includes the Lieutenant
Governor in Council and the Legislative
Assembly of the Northwest Territories, as
constituted before the 1st day of September
1905, the Commissioner in Council of the
Yukon Territory, and the Commissioner in
Council of the Northwest Territories ;
"lieutenant governor" means the lieutenant
governor for the time being, or other chief
executive officer or administrator for the
time being, carrying on the government of
the province indicated by the enactment,
by whatever title he is designated, and, in
relation to the Yukon Territory or the
Northwest Territories, means the Commis
sioner thereof ;
"lieutenant governor in council" means the
lieutenant governor, or person administer
ing the government of the province indicat
ed by the enactment, for the time being,
acting by and with the advice of, or by and
with the advice and consent of, or in
conjunction with the executive council of
such province and, in relation to the Yukon
Territory or the Northwest Territories,
means the Commissioner thereof;
time", in relation to any place, means
the time observed in that place for the
regulation of business hours;
is to be construed as permissive ;
"military" shall be construed as relating to
all or any part of the Canadian Forces;
"month" means a calendar month;
"now" or "next" shall be construed as having
reference to the time when the enactment
was enacted ;
"oath" includes a solemn affirmation or
declaration, whenever the context applies
to any person by whom and case in which
a solemn affirmation or declaration may be
made instead of an oath; and in like cases
the expression "sworn" includes the expres
sion "affirmed" or "declared";
"person" or any word or expression descriptive
of a person, includes a corporation;
"proclamation" means a proclamation under
the Great Seal ;
"province" means a province of Canada, and
includes the Yukon Territory and the
Northwest Territories ;
"radio" or "radiocommunication" means any
transmission, emission or reception of signs,
signals, writing, images, sounds or intelli
gence of any nature by means of electro
magnetic waves of frequencies lower than
three thousand Gigacycles per second
propagated in space without artificial
guide ;
"regular force" means the component of the
Canadian Forces that is referred to in the
National Defence Act as the regular force ;
"reserve force" means the component of the
Canadian Forces that is referred to in the
National Defence Act as the reserve force ;
"shall" is to be construed as imperative ;
"standard time", except as otherwise provided
by any proclamation of the Governor in
Council which may be issued for the
purposes of this definition in relation to
any province or territory or any part
thereof, means
longitude, parts of the
Northwest Territories lying east of the
sixty-eighth meridian of west longitude,
Atlantic standard time, being four hours
behind Greenwich time,
  * (_c_) in relation to those parts of the Province
of Quebec lying west of the sixty-third
meridian of west longitude, and those parts
of the Province of Ontario lying between
the ninetieth and the sixty-eighth meridians
of west longitude, Southampton Island and
the islands adjacent to Southampton Island,
and that part of the Northwest Territories
lying between the sixty-eighth and the
eighty-fifth meridians of west longitude,
eastern standard time, being five hours
behind Greenwich time,
  * (_d_) in relation to that part of the Province
of Ontario lying west of the ninetieth
meridian of west longitude, the Province of
Manitoba, and that part of the Northwest
Territories, except Southampton Island and
the islands adjacent to Southampton Island,
lying between the eighty-fifth and the one
hundred and second meridians of west
longitude, central standard time, being six
hours behind Greenwhich time,
  * (_e_) in relation to the Province of Saskat
chewan, the Province of Alberta, and that
part of the Northwest Territories lying west
of the one hundred and second meridian of
west longitude, mountain standard time,
being seven hours behind Greenwich time,
  * (_f_) in relation to the Province of British
Columbia, Pacific standard time, being
eight hours behind Greenwich time, and
  * (_g_) in relation to the Yukon Territory,
Yukon standard time, being nine hours
behind Greenwich time ;
statutory declaration" means a solemn
declaration made by virtue of the Canada
Evidence Act;
superior court" means
  * (_a_) in the Province of Ontario, Nova Scotia,
New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island,
Alberta or Newfoundland, the Supreme
Court of the Province,
Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of
the Province,
  * (_d_) in the Province of Manitoba or Saskat
chewan, the Court of Appeal for the
Province and the Court of Queen s Bench
for the Province,
  * (_e_) in the Yukon Territory or the Northwest
Territories, the Territorial Court thereof,
and includes the Supreme Court of Canada
and the Exchequer Court of Canada ;
"sureties" means sufficient sureties, and the
expression "security" means sufficient
security ; and, whenever these words are
used, one person is sufficient therefor, unless
otherwise expressly required ;
"telecommunication" means any transmis
sion, emission or reception of signs, signals,
writing, images or sounds or intelligence of
any nature by wire, radio, visual or other
electromagnetic system ;
"two justices" means two or more justices of
the peace, assembled or acting together;
"United Kingdom" means the United King
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ;
"United States" means the United States of
America ;
"writing", or any term of like import, includes
words printed, typewritten, painted,
engraved, lithographed, photographed, or
represented or reproduced by any mode of
representing or reproducing words in visible
form ;
"year" means any period of twelve consecutive
months, except that a reference to a
"calendar year" means a period of twelve
consecutive months commencing on the first
day of January and a reference by number
to a Dominical year means the period of
twelve consecutive months commencing on
the first day of January of that year. 1967-
68, c. 7, s. 28; 1967-68, c. 25, s. 58; SOR/69-
609; SOR/70-22.

**29.** The expression "telegraph" and its
derivatives in an enactment or in an Act of
the legislature of any province enacted before
that province became part of Canada on any
subject that is within the legislative powers of
the Parliament of Canada, shall be deemed
not to include the word "telephone" or its
derivatives. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 30.

**30.** The name commonly applied to any
country, place, body, corporation, society,
officer, functionary, person, party or thing,
means the country, place, body, corporation,
society, officer, functionary, person, party or
thing to which the name is commonly applied,
although the name is not the formal or
extended designation thereof. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 31.

**31.** Where in an enactment relating to the
affairs of Parliament or the Government of
Canada there is a reference to a period of a
year without anything in the context to
indicate beyond doubt whether a fiscal year,
or any period of twelve consecutive months
or a period of twelve consecutive months
commencing on the first day of January is
intended, the Governor in Council may
prescribe which of such periods of twelve
consecutive months shall constitute a year for
the purposes of the enactment. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 32.

## REFERENCES AND CITATIONS

**32.** (1) In an enactment or document
  * (_a_) an Act may be cited by reference to its
chapter number in the Revised Statutes, by
reference to its chapter number in the
volume of Acts for the year or regnal year
in which it was enacted, or by reference to
its long title or short title, with or without
reference to its chapter number ; and
reference to the number or designation
under which it was registered by the Clerk
of the Privy Council.
(2) A citation of or reference to an enact
ment shall be deemed to be a citation of or
reference to the enactment as amended. 1967-
68, c. 7, s. 33.

**33.** (1) A reference in an enactment by
number or letter to two or more parts,
divisions, sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, clauses, subclauses, schedules,
appendices or forms shall be read as including
the number or letter first mentioned and the
number or letter last mentioned.
(2) A reference in an enactment to a part,
division, section, schedule, appendix or form
shall be read as a reference to a part, division,
section, schedule, appendix or form of the
enactment in which the reference occurs.
(3) A reference in an enactment to a
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, clause
or subclause shall be read as a reference to a
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, clause
or subclause of the section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph or clause, as the
case may be, in which the reference occurs.
(4) A reference in an enactment to regula
tions shall be read as a reference to regulations
made under the enactment in which the
reference occurs.
(5) A reference in an enactment by number
or letter to any section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, clause, subclause or other
division or line of another enactment shall be
read as a reference to the section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, clause, subclause or
other division or line of such other enactment
as printed by authority of law. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 34.

## REPEAL AND AMENDMENT

**34.** (1) Every Act shall be so construed as
to reserve to Parliament the power of repealing
amending it, and of revoking, restricting
or modifying any power, privilege or advan
tage thereby vested in or granted to any
person.
(2) An Act may be amended or repealed by
an Act passed in the same session of
Parliament.
(3) An amending enactment, as far as
consistent with the tenor thereof, shall be
construed as part of the enactment that it
amends. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 35.

**35.** Where an enactment is repealed in
whole or in part, the repeal does not
  * (_a_) revive any enactment or anything not
in force or existing at the time when the
repeal takes effect ;
  * (_b_) affect the previous operation of the
enactment so repealed or anything duly
done or suffered thereunder;
  * (_c_) affect any right, privilege, obligation or
liability acquired, accrued, accruing or
incurred under the enactment so repealed ;
  * (_d_) affect any offence committed against or
a violation of the provisions of the
enactment so repealed, or any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred under the
enactment so repealed; or
  * (_e_) affect any investigation, legal proceed
ing or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment ;
and an investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy as described in paragraph (e) may be
instituted, continued or enforced, and the
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if the enactment had not been so
repealed. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 36.

**36.** Where an enactment (in this section
called the "former enactment") is repealed
is appointed in his stead ;
(6) every bond and security given by a
person appointed under the former enact
ment remains in force, and all books, papers,
forms and things made or used under the
former enactment shall continue to be used
as before the repeal so far as they are
consistent with the new enactment;
  * (_c_) every proceeding taken under the former
enactment shall be taken up and continued
under and in conformity with the new
enactment so far as it may be done
consistently with the new enactment ;
  * (_d_) the procedure established by the new
enactment shall be followed as far as it can
be adapted thereto in the recovery or
enforcement of penalties and forfeitures
incurred, and in the enforcement of rights,
existing or accruing under the former
enactment or in a proceeding in relation to
matters that have happened before the
repeal ;
  * (_e_) when any penalty, forfeiture or punish
ment is reduced or mitigated by the new
enactment, the penalty, forfeiture or pun
ishment if imposed or adjudged after the
repeal shall be reduced or mitigated
accordingly ;
(/) except to the extent that the provisions
of the new enactment are not in substance
the same as those of the former enactment,
the new enactment shall not be held to
operate as new law, but shall be construed
and have effect as a consolidation and as
declaratory of the law as contained in the
former enactment ;
(0) all regulations made under the repealed
enactment remain in force and shall be
deemed to have been made under the new
enactment, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the new enactment, until
they are repealed or others made in their
stead ; and
  * (_h_) any reference in an unrepealed enact
ment to the former enactment shall, as
regards a subsequent transaction, matter or
thing, be read and construed as a reference
to the provisions of the new enactment
relating to the same subject-matter as the
former enactment, but where there are no
provisions in the new enactment relating to
the same subject-matter, the former enact
ment shall be read as unrepealed in so far
as is necessary to maintain or give effect to
the unrepealed enactment. 1967-68, c. 7,
s. 37.

**37.** (1) The repeal of an enactment in
whole or in part shall not be deemed to be or
to involve a declaration that such enactment
was or was considered by Parliament or other
body or person by whom the enactment was
enacted to have been previously in force.
(2) The amendment of an enactment shall
not be deemed to be or to involve a declaration
that the law under such enactment was or was
considered by Parliament or other body or
person by whom the enactment was enacted
to have been different from the law as it is
under the enactment as amended.
(3) The repeal or amendment of an enact
ment in whole or in part shall not be deemed
to be or to involve any declaration as to the
previous state of the law.
(4) A re-enactment, revision, consolidation
or amendment of an enactment shall not be
deemed to be or to involve an adoption of
the construction that has by judicial decision
or otherwise been placed upon the language
used in the enactment or upon similar
language. 1967-68, c. 7, s. 38.

## DEMISE OF CROWN
gg. (1) Where there is a demise of the
Crown,
  * (_a_) the demise does not affect the holding
of any office under the Crown in right of
Canada; and
(6) it is not necessary by reason of such
demise that the holder of any such office
again be appointed thereto or that, having
taken an oath of office or allegiance before
such demise, he again take such oath.
(2) No writ, action or other process or
proceeding, civil or criminal, in or issuing out
of any court established by an Act of the
Parliament of Canada is, by reason of a
demise of the Crown, determined, abated,
discontinued or affected, but every such writ,
in full
carried on or
completed as
demise. 1967-
