
## CHAPTER 1-3
Act to make provision for appeals to an
Immigration Appeal Board in respect of
certain matters relating to immigration

## SHORT TITLE
\, This Act may be cited as the Immigration
Appeal Board Act 1966-67, c. 90, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Immigration Appeal
Board established by this Act ;
"Canadian citizen" means a person who is a
Canadian citizen within the meaning of the
Canadian Citizenship Act;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the
Board ;
"hearing" means a further examination or
inquiry conducted by a Special Inquiry
Officer under the Immigration Act;
"member" means a member of the Board ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Manpower
and Immigration;
"permanent resident" means a person who
has been granted lawful admission to
Canada for permanent residence under the
Immigration Act;
"Vice-Chairman" means the Vice-Chairman
of the Board ;
and other words and expressions in this Act

## IMMIGRATION APPEAL BOARD ESTABLISHED

**3.** (1) There shall be a board, to be called
the Immigration Appeal Board consisting of
not less than seven nor more than nine
members to be appointed by the Governor in
Council.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), each member
shall be appointed to hold office during good
behaviour but may be removed by the
Governor in Council for cause.
(3) A member ceases to hold office upon
attaining the age of seventy years.
(4) No person who has attained the age of
sixty-five years shall be appointed a member.
(5) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members to be Chairman of the
Board and two of the members to be Vice-
Chairmen of the Board.
(6) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the Chairman, a Vice-Chairman or any
other member or if the office of such person
is vacant, the Minister may appoint some
other person qualified to hold such office to
act in his stead during his absence or
incapacity or until the vacancy is filled, as
the case may be, but where the Chairman is
absent or unable to act or his office is vacant
and no person has been so appointed to act
in his stead, a Vice-Chairman designated by
the Minister, has and may exercise and
perform all of the duties and powers of the
Chairman.
(7) The Chairman and at least two other
members shall be barristers or advocates of at
least ten years standing at the bar of a
province. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 3.

**4.** Each member shall be paid such remu
neration for his services as is fixed by the
Governor in Council, and is entitled to be
paid reasonable travelling and living expenses
incurred by him while absent from his
ordinary place of residence in the course of
his duties under this Act. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 4.

**5.** The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Board and has supervision over
and direction of the work and the staff of the
Board. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The head office of the Board shall
in the city of Ottawa and the Chairman
other members shall live there or within
fifteen miles thereof or at such other places
as may be designated by the Governor in
Council.
(2) The Board may sit at such places in
Canada as it sees fit.
(3) The Chairman and not less than two
other members, or one of the Vice-Chairmen
and not less than two other members if at
least one of such persons is a person described
in subsection 3(7), constitute a quorum of the
Board. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Board is a court of record and
shall have an official seal, which shall be
judicially noticed.
(2) The Board has, as regards the attend
ance, swearing and examination of witnesses,
the production and inspection of documents,
the enforcement of its orders and other
matters necessary or proper for the due
exercise of its jurisdiction, all such powers,
rights and privileges as are vested in a superior
court of record and, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, may
  * (_a_) issue a summons to any person requiring
him to appear at the time and place
mentioned therein to testify to all matters
within his knowledge relative to a subject-
matter before the Board and to bring with
him and produce any document, book or
paper that he has in his possession or under
his control relative to such subject-matter;
  * (_b_) administer oaths and examine any
person upon oath, affirmation or otherwise ;
and
  * (_c_) during a hearing receive such additional
information as it may consider credible or
trustworthy and necessary for dealing with
the subject-matter before it.
(3) The Board may, and at the request of
either of the parties to the appeal shall, give
reasons for its disposition of the appeal. 1966-
67, c. 90, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Board may, subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
rules not inconsistent with this Act governing
the activities of the Board and the practice
and procedure in relation to appeals to the
Board under this Act.
(2) No rule made pursuant to subsection (1)
has effect until it has been published in the
Canada Gazette. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 8.

**9.** (1) Such officers, clerks and employees
as are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Board shall be appointed in
accordance with the Public Service Employment
Act.
(2) For the purposes of the Public Service
Superannuation Act the members appointed
under subsection 3(1) and the officers, clerks
and employees appointed as provided in
subsection (1) of this section shall be deemed
to be employed in the Public Service. 1966-
67, c. 90, s. 9.

## HEARING AND DETERMINATION OF APPEALS
iQ. (1) The Chairman of the Board may
direct that evidence relating to an appeal
under this Act be received, in whole or in
part, by a member of the Board, and that
member has and may exercise all of the
powers of the Board in relation to the hearing
of the appeal.
(2) A member by whom evidence relating
to an appeal under this Act has been received
pursuant to subsection (1) shall make a report
thereon to the Board and a copy of the report
shall be provided to each of the parties to the
appeal.
(3) After receiving any report made under
subsection (2), and after holding a re-hearing,
in whole or in part, of the appeal if in its
discretion the Board deems it advisable to do
so, the Board shall determine the appeal.
1966-67, c. 90, s. 10.

## APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF DEPORTATION

**11.** A person against whom an order of
deportation has been made under the Immi
gration Act may appeal to the Board on any
ground of appeal that involves a question of
law or fact or mixed law and fact. 1966-67, c.
90, s. 11.

**12.** The Minister may appeal to the Board
any ground of appeal that involves a
of law or fact, or mixed law and fact,
a decision by a Special Inquiry Officer
that a person in respect of whom a hearing
has been held is not within a prohibited class
or is not subject to deportation. 1966-67, c. 90,
s. 12.

**13.** The Board may order a hearing
reopened before the Special Inquiry Officer
who presided at the hearing or before some
other Special Inquiry Officer for the receiving
of any additional evidence or testimony, and
the Special Inquiry Officer who presides at
the reopened hearing shall file a copy of the
minutes of the reopened hearing, together
with his assessment of such additional evi
dence or testimony, with the Board for its
consideration in disposing of the appeal. 1966-
67,c.90,s. 13.

**14.** The Board may dispose of an appeal
under section 11 or section 12 by
  * (_a_) allowing it ;
(6) dismissing it ; or
  * (_c_) rendering the decision and making the
order that the Special Inquiry Officer who
presided at the hearing should have ren
dered and made. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 14.

**15.** (1) Where the Board dismisses an
appeal against an order of deportation or
makes an order of deportation pursuant to
paragraph 14(c), it shall direct that the order
be executed as soon as practicable, except that
the Board may,
  * (_a_) in the case of a person who was a
permanent resident at the time of the
making of the order of deportation, having
regard to all the circumstances of the case,
or
  * (_b_) in the case of a person who was not a
permanent resident at the time of the
making of the order of deportation, having
regard to
  * (_i_) the existence of reasonable grounds
for believing that if execution of the
order is carried out the person concerned
will be punished for activities of a
political character or will suffer unusual
hardship, or
  * (_ii_) the existence of compassionate or
humanitarian considerations that in the
opinion of the Board warrant the granting
of special relief,
direct that the execution of the order of
be stayed, or quash the order or
quash the order and direct the grant or entry
or landing to the person against whom the
order was made.
(2) Where, pursuant to subsection (1), the
Board directs that execution of an order of
deportation be stayed, it shall allow the
person concerned to come into or remain in
Canada under such terms and conditions as
the Board may prescribe and shall review the
case from time to time as it considers necessary
or advisable.
(3) The Board may at any time
  * (_a_) amend the terms and conditions pre
scribed under subsection (2) or impose new
terms and conditions; or
(6) cancel its direction staying the execution
of an order of deportation and direct that
the order be executed as soon as practicable.
(4) Where the execution of an order of
deportation
  * (_a_) has been stayed pursuant to paragraph
(l)(a), the Board may at any time thereafter
quash the order ; or
  * (_b_) has been stayed pursuant to paragraph
(1)(6), the Board may at any time thereafter
quash the order and direct the grant of
entry or landing to the person against
whom the order was made. 1966-67, c. 90, s.

**15.**

**16.** Where a person who has been ordered
deported and who has been returned to the
place whence he came to Canada in accordance
with the requirements of subsection 23(1) of
the Immigration Act, advises the Board in
writing of his desire to appear in person
before the Board on the hearing of his appeal
against the order of deportation, the Board
may allow him to return to Canada for that
purpose under such terms and conditions as
it may prescribe. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 16.

## APPEALS BY SPONSORS
and if the Board decides that the person
admission is being sponsored and the
sponsor of that person meet all the require
ments of the Immigration Act and the
regulations made thereunder relevant to the
approval of the application or that there exist
compassionate or humanitarian considera
tions that in the opinion of the Board warrant
the granting of special relief, the application
shall be approved, but an appeal under this
section may be taken only by such persons
and in respect of such classes of relatives
referred to in the regulations as may be
defined by order of the Governor in Council.
1966-67, c. 90, s. 17.

## RELEASE PENDING HEARING

**18.** (1) A person who is being detained
pending the hearing and disposition of an
appeal under this Act may apply to the Board
for his release and the Board may, notwith
standing anything in the Immigration Act,
order his release.
(2) A person may be released under subsec
tion (1) upon entering into
  * (_a_) a recognizance before the Board, or a
member thereof, in such form and with
sufficient sureties in such amount as the
Board directs ;
  * (_b_) his own recognizance before the Board,
or a member thereof, and depositing with
the Board such sum of money as the Board
directs; or
  * (_c_) his own recognizance before the Board,
or a member thereof, in such amount as the
Board directs without any deposit ;
and the recognizance shall prescribe such
conditions of release as the Board deems
advisable, including the time and place at
which the person released shall report to an
immigration officer.
(3) The Board may at any time,
  * (_a_) cancel an order of release and direct
that the person concerned be returned to
custody ;
(6) vary the amount of a recognizance or
deposit ; or
  * (_c_) vary the conditions of any release
ordered by it.
(4) Where a person released under subsec
tion (1) fails to comply with any of the
conditions under which he was released, the
Board, or a member thereof, may make an
order for his arrest and detention and the
Board may order the forfeiture of the amount
of the recognizance or deposit given or made
by him.
(5) Where the Board orders any forfeiture
under subsection (4), the principal and his
sureties become debtors of the Crown, each in
the amount he has pledged himself to pay
and the debt is, subject to subsection (6),
recoverable in the Exchequer Court of Canada
as a debt due to the Crown.
(6) Where a deposit has been made by a
person against whom an order of forfeiture
has been made under subsection (4), the
amount of the deposit shall be delivered to
the Receiver General.
(7) An order for arrest and detention made
under this section is, notwithstanding any
other Act or law, sufficient authority for the
person to whom it is addressed to arrest and
detain the person concerned, and any such
order may be addressed generally to peace
officers or immigration officers or both. 1966-
67, c. 90, s. 18.

## NOTICE AND HEARING

**19.** (i) An appellant who proposes to
appeal to the Board shall give notice of the
appeal in such manner and within such time
as is prescribed by the rules of the Board.
(2) Every appellant under section 11 or 17
shall be advised by the Minister of the
grounds on which the deportation order was
made or the refusal to approve the application
admission into Canada was based. 1966-
c. 90, s. 19.

**20.** An appeal to the Board shall be heard
public but if the appellant so requests the
may in its discretion direct that it be
in camera. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 20.

## SECURITY
2 1. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
Act, the Board shall not,
  * (_a_) in the exercise of its discretion under
section 15, stay the execution of a deporta
tion order or thereafter continue or renew
the stay, quash a deportation order, or
direct the grant of entry or landing to any
person, or
(6) render a decision pursuant to section 17
that a person whose admission is being
sponsored and the sponsor of that person
meet the requirements referred to in that
section,
if a certificate signed by the Minister and the
Solicitor General is filed with the Board
stating that in their opinion, based upon
security or criminal intelligence reports
received and considered by them, it would be
contrary to the national interest for the Board
to take such action.
(2) A certificate purporting to be signed by
the Minister and the Solicitor General
pursuant to subsection (1) shall be deemed to
have been signed by them and shall be
received by the Board without proof of the
signatures or official character of the persons
appearing to have signed it unless called into
question by the Minister or the Solicitor
General, and the certificate is conclusive proof
of the matters stated therein. 1966-67, c. 90, s.

**21.**

## EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF BOARD AND

## APPEALS TO SUPREME COURT

**22.** Subject to this Act and except as
provided in the Immigration Act, the Board
has sole and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
determine all questions of fact or law,
including questions of jurisdiction, that may
arise in relation to the making of an order of
deportation or the making of an application
for the admission to Canada of a relative
pursuant to regulations made under the
Immigration Act. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 22.

**23.** (1) An appeal lies to the Supreme
Court of Canada on any question of law,
including a question of jurisdiction, from a
decision of the Board on an appeal under this
Act if leave to appeal is granted by that
Court within fifteen days after the decision
appealed from is pronounced or within such
extended time as a judge of that Court may,
for special reasons, allow.
(2) The Governor in Council may make
rules governing the practice and procedure in
relation to applications for leave to appeal
and appeals to the Supreme Court of Canada
pursuant to this section, and such rules shall
be binding notwithstanding any rule or
practice that would otherwise be applicable.
(3) No order as to costs shall be made in
respect of an application for leave to appeal
or an appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada
pursuant to this section. 1966-67, c. 90, s. 23.
