
## CHAPTER 1-8
An Act respecting industrial designs

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Industrial
Design Act. R.S., c. 150, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister named by the Governor in Council
to administer this Act. U.S., c. 150, s. 2.

## PARTI

## INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS
Registration

**3.** The Minister shall cause to be kept a
book called the Register of Industrial Designs
for the registration therein of industrial
designs. R.S., c. 150, s. 3.

**4.** The proprietor applying for the regis
tration of any design shall deposit with the
Minister a drawing and description in dupli
cate of the design, together with a declaration
that the design was not in use to his knowledge
by any other person than himself at the time
of his adoption thereof. R.S., c. 150, s. 4.

**5.** On receipt of the fee prescribed by this
Act in that behalf, the Minister shall cause
any design for which the proprietor has made
application for registry to be examined to
ascertain whether it resembles any other
design already registered. R.S., c. 150, s. 5.

**6.** The Minister shall register the design if
thereof one copy of the drawing and descrip
tion with the certificate required by this Part ;
but he may refuse, subject to appeal to the
Governor in Council, to register such designs
as do not appear to him to be within the
provisions of this Part or any design that is
contrary to public morality or order. R.S., c.
150,8.6.

**7.** (1) On the copy of the drawing and
description returned to the person registering,
a certificate shall be given signed by the
Minister or the Commissioner of Patents to
the effect that such design has been duly
registered in accordance with this Act.
(2) Such certificate shall show the date of
registration including the day, month and
year of the entry thereof in the proper register,
the name and address of the registered
proprietor, the number of such design and the
number or letter employed to denote or
correspond to the registration.
(3) The said certificate, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, is sufficient evidence of
the design, of the originality of the design, of
the name of the proprietor, of the person
named as proprietor being proprietor, of the
commencement and term of registry, and of
compliance with this Act. R.S., c. 150, s. 7.

**8.** Where the author of any design has, for
a good and valuable consideration, executed
the design for some other person, such other
person is alone entitled to register. R.S., c.
150, s. 8.
Exclusive Right
9, An exclusive right for an industrial
design may be acquired by registration of the
design under this Part. R.S., c. 150, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Such exclusive right is valid for the
term of five years, but may be renewed, at or
before the expiration of that term, for a
further period of five years or less on payment
of the fee in this Act prescribed for extension
of time ; but the whole duration of the
exclusive right shall not exceed ten years in
all.
(2) The rights of an industrial design that
not been renewed before the expiration
its current term of five years may be
on application to the Commissioner
of Patents within the period of three months
from the expiration of said term upon
payment of the renewal fee together with the
supplementary fee prescribed in this Act.
R.S.,c. 150,8.10.

**11.** During the existence of such exclusive
right, whether of the entire or partial use of
such design, no person shall, without the
licence in writing of the registered proprietor,
or, if assigned, of his assignee, apply for the
purposes of sale such design or a fraudulent
imitation thereof to the ornamenting of any
article of manufacture or other article to
which an industrial design may be applied or
attached, or publish, sell or expose for sale or
use, any such article as aforesaid to which
such design or fraudulent imitation thereof
has been applied. R.S., c. 150, s. 11.
Proprietorship

**12.** (1) The author of any design shall be
considered the proprietor thereof unless he
has executed the design for another person
for a good or valuable consideration, in which
case such other person shall be considered the
proprietor.
(2) The right of such other person to the
property shall only be co-extensive with the
right that he has acquired. R.S., c. 150, s. 12.
Assignments

**13.** (1) Every design is assignable in law,
either as to the whole interest or any
undivided part thereof, by an instrument in
writing, which shall be recorded in the office
of the Minister on payment of the fees
prescribed by this Act in that behalf.
(2) Every proprietor of a design may grant
and convey an exclusive right to make, use
and vend and to grant to others the right to
make, use and vend such design within and
throughout Canada or any part thereof for
the unexpired term of its duration or any part
thereof.
(3) Such exclusive grant and conveyance
shall be called a licence, and shall be recorded
in like manner and time as assignments. R.S.,
c. 150, s. 13.
Protection of Design

**14.** (1) In order that any design may be
protected, it shall be registered within one
year from the publication thereof in Canada,
and, after registration, the name of the
proprietor shall appear upon the article to
which his design applies by being marked, if
the manufacture is a woven fabric, on one
end thereof, together with the letters "Rd."
and, if the manufacture is of any other
substance, with the letters "Rd." and the year
of registration at the edge or upon any
convenient part thereof.
(2) The mark may be put upon the
manufacture by making it on the material
itself, or by attaching thereto a label with the
proper marks thereon. R.S., c. 150, s. 14.
Right of Action

**15.** If any person applies or imitates any
design for the purpose of sale, being aware
that the proprietor of such design has not
given his consent to such application or
imitation, an action may be maintained by
the proprietor of such design against such
person for the damages such proprietor has
sustained by reason of such application or
imitation. R.S., c. 150, s. 15.
Offences and Penalties

**16.** (1) Every person who, in violation of
this Part, during the existence of the exclusive
right acquired for any industrial design by
the registration of the design under this Part,
whether of the entire or partial use of such
design, without the licence in writing of the
registered proprietor, or, if assigned, of his
assignee,
  * (_a_) for the purposes of sale, applies or
attaches such design or a fraudulent
imitation thereof to the ornamenting of
any article of manufacture or other article
to which an industrial design may be
applied or attached, or
(6) publishes, sells or exposes for sale or for
use, any article of manufacture or other
article to which an industrial design may
be applied or attached and to which such
design or fraudulent imitation thereof has
been applied or attached,
forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred
twenty dollars and not less than twenty
to the proprietor of the design so
applied or attached.
(2) Such sum is recoverable with costs on
summary conviction under the Criminal Code
by the registered proprietor or assignee. R.S.,
c. 150, s. 16.

**17.** (1) Every person who
  * (_a_) places the word "Registered" or the
letters "Rd." upon any article for which no
design has been registered under this Part
or upon any article for the design of which
the exclusive right has expired,
  * (_b_) advertises for sale as a registered article
any article for which no design has been
registered or for the design of which the
exclusive right has expired, or
  * (_c_) unlawfully sells, publishes or exposes for
sale any article for which no design has
been registered, or for the design of which
the exclusive right has expired, and on
which the word "Registered" or the letters
"Rd." have been placed, knowing the said
article to have been fraudulently marked
or the exclusive right to such design to have
expired,
is for each offence liable to a penalty not
exceeding thirty dollars and not less than
four dollars.
(2) Such penalty is recoverable on summary
conviction under the Criminal Code with costs
by any person who sues for the same.
(3) A moiety of such penalty shall belong
to the prosecutor, and the other moiety to
Her Majesty for the public uses of Canada.
R.S., c. 150, s. 17.
Limitation of Actions

**18.** All suits and all proceedings under this
Part for offences shall be brought within
twelve months from the cause of action or
commission of the offence and not afterwards.
R.S., c. 150, s. 18.

## PART II

## GENERAL
Rules, Regulations and Forms

**19.** (1) The Minister may, subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
rules and regulations and from time to time
adopt forms for the purposes of this Act
respecting industrial designs; and such rules,
regulations and forms circulated in print for
the use of the public shall be deemed to be
correct for the purposes of this Act.
(2) All documents executed according to
the said rules, regulations and forms, and
accepted by the Minister, shall be deemed to
be valid so far as relates to official proceedings
under this Act. R.S., c. 150, s. 19.
Clerical Errors

**20.** Clerical errors that occur in the drawing
up or copying of any instrument under this
Act respecting industrial designs shall not be
construed as invalidating the instrument, but
when discovered, may be corrected under the
authority of the Minister. R.S., c. 150, s. 20.
Inspection

**21.** (1) Any person may be allowed to
inspect the register of industrial designs.
(2) The Minister may cause copies of
representations of industrial designs to be
delivered to the applicant upon payment by
the applicant of the fee or fees prescribed by
this Act in that behalf. R.S., c. 150, s. 21.
Procedure as to Rectification and Alteration

**22.** (1) The Exchequer Court of Canada
may, on the information of the Attorney
General, or at the suit of any person aggrieved
by any omission, without sufficient cause, to
make any entry in the register of industrial
designs, or t by any entry made without
sufficient cause in any such register, make
such order for making, expunging or varying
any entry in any such register as the Court
thinks fit ; or the Court may refuse the
application.
(2) In either case, the Court may make such
(3) The Court may in any proceedings
under this section, decide any question that
may be necessary or expedient to decide for
the rectification of any such register.
(4) The Exchequer Court of Canada has
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine
such proceedings. R.S., c. 150, s. 22.

**23.** (1) The registered proprietor of any
registered industrial design may apply to the
Exchequer Court of Canada for leave to add
to or alter any such industrial design in any
particular not being an essential particular,
and the Court may refuse or grant leave on
such terms as it may think fit.
(2) Notice of any intended application to
the Court under this section for leave to add
to or alter any such industrial design shall be
given to the Minister, and he is entitled to be
heard on the application. R.S., c. 150, s. 23.

**24.** A certified copy of any order of the
Court for the making, expunging or varying
of any entry in the register of industrial
designs, or for adding to or altering any
registered industrial design, shall be transmit
ted to the Minister by the Registrar of the
Court, and such register shall thereupon be
rectified or altered in conformity with such
order, or the purport of the order otherwise
duly entered therein, as the case may be.
R.S..C. 150,s. 24.
Evidence

**25.** Every certificate under this Act that
any industrial design has been duly registered
in accordance with this Act, that purports to
be signed by the Minister or the Commissioner
of Patents shall, without proof of the
signature, be received in all courts in Canada
as evidence of the facts therein alleged. R.S.,
c. 150, s. 25.
Fees

**26.** The following are the fees in respect to
registration under this Act that shall be paid
the Minister in advance, that is to say:
  * (_a_) on every application to register a design,
including certificate S5.00
(Z&amp;gt;) on every application as to a design for
an extension of time, for each year of such
extension, including certificate 2.00
  * (_c_) for a copy of every certificate of regis
tration separate from the return of the
duplicate 1.00
  * (_d_) for the recording of every assignment 2.00
  * (_e_) for copies of documents not mentioned
above, for every hundred words or for
every fraction thereof 0.50
(/) for each copy of any drawing, and for
each of any drawn copy of an industrial
design, the reasonable expense of preparing
the same;
(0) on every application for the renewal of
the rights for an industrial design filed un
der subsection 10(2) an additional fee of.... 5.00
R.S., c. 150, s. 26.

**27.** All fees received by the Minister under
this Act shall be paid over by him to the
Receiver General. R.S., c. 150, s. 27; 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 105.

**28.** Where any industrial design in respect
of which application for registry is made
under this Act is not registered, all fees paid
to the Minister for registration shall be
returned to the applicant or his agent, less
the sum of two dollars, which shall be retained
as compensation for office expenses. R.S., c.
150, s. 28.

**29.** An application for the registration of
an industrial design filed in this country by
any person who has previously, regularly filed
an application for the registration of the same
industrial design in a foreign country that by
treaty, convention or law affords similar
privilege to citizens of Canada, has the same
force and effect as the same application would
have if filed in this country on the date on
which the application for the registration of
the same industrial design was first filed in
such foreign country, if the application in
this country is filed within six months from
the earliest date on which a.uy such foreign
application was filed. R.S., c. 150, s. 29.
