Shipping Act. R.S., c. 169, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"certificate" means a certificate issued under
and for the purposes of this Act ;
"inspector" means an inspector for the
purposes of this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport ;
"ship" means any vessel used in navigation;
"ship carrying livestock" means any ship
employed in carrying livestock from any
port or place in Canada to any port or
place out of Canada, not being a port or
place in the United States, St. Pierre or
Miquelon, Bermuda, the West Indian
Islands, Mexico, or South America. R.S., c.
169, s. 2.

## GENERAL
3, Th e Governor in Council may make
rules and regulations for the health, security
and safe carriage of livestock on ships. R.S.,
c. 169, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may establish
a fee to be paid on each head of livestock
shipped on any ship carrying livestock ; and
no officer of customs shall grant a clearance
to any such ship with livestock on board until
such fee has been paid. R.S., c. 169, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint inspectors and determine the remu
neration to be paid to them out of the fees
collected under this Act ; and any fees
collected by an inspector in excess of the
amount of the remuneration so determined
shall be paid over by him to the Receiver
General to form part of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.
(2) At any port for which no inspector has
been appointed under this Act, the port
warden duly appointed by the Governor in
Council is ex officio the inspector.
(3) At any port at which there is no port
warden so appointed, and for which no
inspector has been appointed under this Act,
the chief officer of customs at such port is ex
officio the inspector.
(4) Every inspector shall, as soon as possible
after the 31st day of December in each year,
furnish to the Minister a written statement of
the fees collected by him under this Act
during such year and of the manner in which
he has disposed of them. R.S., c. 169, s. 5;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**6.** No officer of customs shall grant a
clearance to any ship carrying livestock until
he receives the certificate of an inspector
certifying
  * (_a_) the number of livestock such ship is
adapted to carry ;
(6) the number actually on board for the
intended voyage ;
  * (_c_) that the arrangements for carrying such
livestock are approved by him ;
  * (_d_) that the shelters or fittings, if such
livestock is carried on the upper or spar
deck, are sufficiently strong and substantial
to ensure the safety of such livestock for
the voyage ;
  * (_e_) that such ship is seaworthy ; and
(/) that all the requirements of the rules
and regulations at the time in force
respecting the health, security and safe
carriage of livestock on ships, provided for
by or under this Act, have been complied
with. R.S., c. 169, s. 6.

**7.** (1) When any ship carrying livestock has
with the foregoing requirements,
obtained a clearance at any port or place
Canada, and, not having on board as great
a number of livestock as its certificate allows
for the intended voyage, proceeds to another
port or place in Canada to complete its cargo
of livestock, the master of such ship shall
notify the inspector, before clearing, of his
intention to do so ; and it is then the duty of
the inspector at the first port of clearance to
notify the inspector at the port at which the
ship is to complete its cargo of livestock, of
the master s intention, the number of livestock
on board, and the number allowed to be
carried by the certificate for the intended
voyage.
(2) In such case the ship, upon its arrival at
the port at which its cargo of livestock is to
be completed, shall not take on any livestock
until the accommodation for such additional
stock has been inspected and approved by the
inspector of the port, who shall certify that
the additional livestock shipped on board
such ship does not cause the number on board
to exceed the number allowed by the certificate
for the intended voyage, and that the
arrangements for carrying such additional
livestock are approved by him.
(3) No officer of customs shall grant a
clearance to any such ship for the additional
livestock until he has received the inspector s
certificate referred to in this section. R.S., c.
169, s. 7.

**8.** Every certificate issued by an inspector
shall be in triplicate, one of which shall be
delivered to the master or agent of the ship,
one to the chief officer of customs of the port
from which such ship clears, and one shall be
retained by the inspector. R.S., c. 169, s. 8.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**9.** (1) Every person who sends or attempts
to send or is a party to sending or attempting
to send and every master who takes or
attempts to take such ship to sea without
having first obtained the certificate of an
inspector certifying
  * (_a_) the number of livestock such ship is
adapted to carry,
(6) the number actually on board for the
intended voyage,
  * (_c_) that the arrangements for carrying such
livestock are approved by him,
  * (_d_) that the shelters or fittings, if such
livestock is carried on the upper or spar
deck, are sufficiently strong and substantial
to ensure the safety of such livestock for
the voyage,
  * (_e_) that such ship is seaworthy, and
  * (_f_) that all the requirements of the rules
and regulations at the time in force
respecting the health, security and safe
carriage of livestock on ships, provided for
by or under this Act, have been complied
with,
is guilty of an indictable offence and the ship
is liable to a penalty of one thousand dollars
and may be seized and detained by any chief
officer of customs whenever and wherever
found in Canada until such penalty and the
costs of seizure are paid.
(2) No prosecution under this section shall
be instituted except by or with the consent of
the Minister. R.S., c. 169, s. 9.

**10.** Any master of a ship who fails to
notify the inspector at any port from which
he intends to proceed to another port or place
in Canada to complete the vessel s cargo of
livestock before clearing therefrom of such
intention or who sails or attempts to go to sea
without having given such notice or takes on
board any additional livestock at any such
port or place to which he so proceeds until
the accommodation of such additional live
stock has been inspected and approved by the
inspector of such port or place, shall incur a
penalty of one thousand dollars and such ship
is liable for such penalty and may be seized
and detained by any chief officer of customs
wherever and whenever found in Canada
until such penalty and the costs of the seizure
are paid. R.S., c. 169, s. 10.
1 1. The master of any ship that proceeds
to sea, or attempts to proceed to sea, with a
greater number of livestock on board than is
allowed by its certificate for the intended
voyage, shall incur a penalty of one thousand
dollars, and such ship is liable for such
found in Canada, until such penalty
and the costs of the seizure are paid. R.S., c.
169, s. 11.

**12.** All penalties recovered under this Act
shall be paid over to the Receiver General to
form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
R.S., c. 169, s. 12; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

## SAVING

**13.** Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to
modify or affect in any way the provisions of
the Canada Shipping Act respecting Port
Wardens, or
  * (_a_) chapter 33 of the Statutes of Canada,
1871, entitled An Act to provide for the
appointment of a Port Warden for the Harbour
of Quebec ;
  * (_b_) chapter 11 of the Statutes of Canada,
1873, entitled An Act to amend the Acts
relating to Port Wardens at Montreal and
Quebec; or
  * (_c_) chapter 45 of the Statutes of Canada,
1882, entitled An Act to amend and consolidate
the Acts relating to the office of Port Warden
for the Harbour of Montreal;
but the provisions hereinbefore contained
shall, with respect to the ports to which those
Acts respectively apply, be construed as
enacted in addition to and not in derogation
of those Acts. R.S., c. 169, s. 13.
