
## CHAPTER L- 12
An Act respecting loan companies

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Loan
Companies Act. R.S., c. 170, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"annual general meeting" includes the general
meeting of shareholders at which the
directors of the company are elected ;
"the company" or "loan company" means a
company incorporated for the purpose of
  * (_a_) exercising all the powers set forth in
sections 60 and 62, or
(6) lending money on the security of
freehold real estate, or investing money in
mortgages or hypothecs upon freehold real
estate, either with or without other objects
or powers ;
"Department" means the Department of
Insurance constituted by the Department of
Insurance Act;
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance;
"real estate" or "land" includes messuages,
lands, tenements and hereditaments of any
tenure and all immovable property of any
kind;
"shareholder" means every subscriber to or
holder of stock in the company and includes
the personal representatives of the share
holder;
"Superintendent" means the Superintendent
of Insurance. R.S., c. 170, s. 2; 1958, c. 35, s.
1; 1960-61, c. 51, s. 1.

## APPLICATION OF ACT

**3.** (1) This Act applies to every loan
company incorporated by a special Act of the
Parliament of Canada and any provision of
the special Act that is inconsistent or in
conflict with the provisions of this Act does
not apply.
(2) Part IV of the Canada Corporations Act,
which relates to "companies clauses", does
not, on or after the 1st day of July 1948,
apply to a loan company incorporated by a
special Act of the Parliament of Canada.
R.S., c. 170, s. 3.

## PARTI
Incorporation and Organization

**4.** No letters patent incorporating a loan
company shall be issued under Part III of the
Companies Act, chapter 79 of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1906. R.S., c. 170, s. 4.

**5.** The capital stock of every loan company
incorporated after the 12th day of June 1914,
the name of the loan company, the place
where its head office is to be situated, the
name, place of residence and calling of each
of the provisional directors, shall be declared
in the Act of incorporation of every such loan
company. R.S., c. 170, s. 5.

**6.** Every loan company incorporated by
Act in the form set forth in the schedule is a
body corporate by the name contained in its
Act of incorporation, capable of exercising all
the functions of an incorporated company.
1958, c. 35, s. 2.

**7.** (i) A company may request the Gover-
nor in Council to provide it with a French or
English form of its corporate name and the
Governor in Council may, by order, in
accordance with the request, provide the
company with a French or English form of
its corporate name.
(2) Before any such request is made to the
Governor in Council, notice of the intention
to make the request, showing therein the
French or English form of the corporate name
and in a newspaper published at or near the
place where the head office of the company
is situated.
(3) An order made under subsection (1)
shall be published by the Governor in Council
in the Canada Gazette.
(4) & requested French or English name
i 1 1 . i . , .
sna " not * g lven to a company under this
section if
  * (_a_) the requested form is the same as the
name of any corporation, association or
firm carrying on business in Canada or
incorporated under the laws of Canada or
of any province thereof, or so nearly
resembles that name as to be in the opinion
of the Governor in Council likely to deceive
or likely to be confused with that name,
unless the corporation, association or firm
is in the course of being dissolved or of
changing its name and signifies its consent
in such manner as the Governor in Council
may require ; or
(6) the requested form is otherwise on public
grounds objectionable.
(5) After the publication of an order made
under subsection (1), the company mentioned
in that order may from time to time as it sees
fit use, or it may be legally designated by,
either the French or English form of its
corporate name as provided in the order, or
both forms; and, except as provided in this
subsection, the provision of a French or
English form of a corporate name does not
affect in any way the rights, powers, obliga
tions or liabilities of the company. 1964-65, c.
40, s. 35.

**8.** (1) The number of provisional directors

**9.** (i) The provisional directors may, after
giving notice thereof by advertisement in one
or more newspapers published at the place
where the head office of the company is
situated and in the Canada Gazette, open
stock books, procure subscriptions of stock,
make calls in respect of stock not fully paid
up and do generally whatever may be
necessary to organize the company.
(2) The first of such calls shall not exceed
twenty-five per cent of the amount subscribed
and no subsequent call shall exceed ten per
cent thereof and such calls shall be made at
intervals of not less than thirty days.
(3) Not less than thirty days notice shall be
given of any call and any notice of call may
be effectually given by sending the notice by
registered mail to the latest known address of
each shareholder as contained in the books of
the company.
(4) The provisional directors may, if they
think fit, receive from any shareholder willing
to advance the same all or any part of the
money due upon the shares held by him
beyond the sums actually called for; and
upon the money so paid in advance or so
much thereof as from time to time exceeds
the amount of the calls then due upon the
shares in respect of which such advance has
been made, the company may pay interest at
such rate as the shareholder paying such sum
in advance and the directors may agree upon.
(5) The provisional directors shall deposit
to the credit of the company in a chartered
bank all moneys received by them on account
of stock subscribed or otherwise on account of
the company and may withdraw the moneys
so deposited for the purposes of the company
only. R.S., c. 170, s. 8.
into a chartered bank in Canada, the
provisional directors may call a general
meeting of the shareholders to be held at the
place named in the Act of incorporation where
the head office of the company is to be
situated.
(2) For the purpose of the organization of
the company under the provisions of this Act,
  * (_a_) stock upon which less than ten per cent
has been paid in cash by the subscriber shall
not be deemed to have been bona fide
subscribed ; and
(6) any sum paid by any subscriber less
than ten per cent of the amount subscribed
by him shall not be taken into account as
part of the sums paid in on account of
subscriptions of stock. R.S., c. 170, s. 10;
1958, c. 35, s. 3.

**11.** At such meeting only the shareholders
who have paid in cash at least ten per cent of
the amount of the shares subscribed for by
them are qualified to vote. R.S., c. 170, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The shareholders so qualified shall
at such meeting
  * (_a_) determine the day upon which the
annual general meeting of the company is
to be held ;
  * (_b_) elect such number of directors duly
qualified under this Act as they think
necessary, not less than five nor more than
thirty, a majority of whom constitutes a
quorum, except that when the number
exceeds thirteen the quorum is seven ; and
  * (_c_) appoint an auditor or auditors to hold
office until the first annual general meeting.
(2) Upon the election of directors the
functions of the provisional directors cease.
R.S., c. 170, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The company shall not borrow or
lend money or otherwise carry on business by
exercising any of the powers set forth in
sections 60 and 62 until it has obtained from
the Minister a certificate permitting it to do
so and no application for such certificate shall
be given until it has been shown to the
satisfaction of the Minister by affidavit or
otherwise that
  * (_a_) the board of directors has been duly
elected ;
  * (_b_) the provisions of the company s Act of
incorporation relating to subscription and
payment for stock have been complied
with;
  * (_c_) all other requirements of this Act
antecedent to the granting of a certificate
have been complied with ; and
  * (_d_) the expenses of incorporation and
organization are reasonable.
(2) The particulars of all liabilities of the
company shall be disclosed to the Minister at
the time the application is made.
(3) No certificate under this section shall
be given unless application therefor is made
within two years after the passing of the
company s Act of incorporation, or within
such extended period not exceeding one year
as the Governor in Council before the
expiration of such two years allows.
(4) Where a certificate has not been obtained
as provided in this section, the company s Act
of incorporation thereupon ceases to be in
force, except for the purpose of winding up
the affairs of the company and returning to
subscribers the amounts paid by them upon
the stock subscribed or so much thereof as
they may be entitled to. R.S., c. 170, s. 13;
1958, c. 35, s. 4.

**14.** Notice of the issue of a certificate of
the Minister permitting the company to
commence business shall be published by the
company in the Canada Gazette and in at
least one newspaper in the city or place where
the head office of the company is situated,
and such publication shall be continued for
the period of four weeks. R.S., c. 170, s. 14.
Internal Regulations

**15.** (i) The shareholders may at any
annual general meeting or at any special
general meeting duly called for the purpose
fix and regulate by by-law the following
matters incident to the management and
administration of the affairs of the company,
namely :
  * (_a_) the day on which the annual general
meeting shall be held ;
(6) the notice to be given to shareholders of
special general meetings ;
  * (_c_) the requirements as to proxies, the record
to be kept of them and the time, not
exceeding ten days, within which proxies
must be produced and recorded prior to a
meeting in order to entitle the holder to
vote thereon, but an instrument of proxy is
not valid unless executed within one year
of the date of the meeting at which it is to
be used ;
  * (_d_) the number of directors, but the number
thereof shall not be less than five nor more
than thirty and a majority constitutes a
quorum, except that when the number
exceeds thirteen the quorum is seven ;
  * (_e_) subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the qualifications of directors;
CO the remuneration of the president, vice-
presidents and other directors ; and
  * (_g_) the exercise of the borrowing powers of
the company.
(2) Nothing in this Act operates to reduce
the number of directors or increase the number
forming a quorum of directors of any company
permitted under the laws applicable to such
company on the 1st day of July 1922. R.S., c.
170, s. 15.

**16.** (1) The election of directors shall be
by ballot of the shareholders and shall take
place each year at the annual general meeting
of the company.
(2) The persons to the number authorized
to be elected who have the greatest number
of votes at any election shall be directors.
(3) Where it happens at any election that
two or more persons have an equal number of
votes and the election or non-election of one
or more of such persons as a director or
directors depends on such equality, then the
directors who have a greater number of votes
or a majority of them shall, in order to
the full number of directors, deter
which of the said persons so having an
number of votes shall be a director or
(4) Where at any time, an election of
directors is not made or does not take effect
at the proper time, the company shall not be
held to be thereby dissolved ; but such election
may take place at any general meeting of the
company, duly called for that purpose, and
the retiring directors shall continue in office
until their successors are elected. R.S., c. 170,
s. 16.

**17.** Directors hold office until the annual
general meeting in the year succeeding their
election and if otherwise qualified are eligible
for re-election. R.S., c. 170, s. 17.

**18.** No shareholder is eligible for election
as a director unless he holds in his own name
and for his own use shares of the capital stock
of the company on which at least five hundred
dollars has been paid to the company as
capital or credited by the company as capital
and has paid in cash all calls due thereon and
all liabilities incurred by him to the company ;
and, if any director makes an assignment for
the benefit of creditors or comes within the
operation of any insolvency law or ceases to
hold shares on which at least five hundred
dollars has been paid as capital or credited as
capital as aforesaid, he thereupon ceases to
be a director. 1964-65, c. 40, s. 36.

**19.** The majority of the directors of the
company shall at all times be persons resident
in Canada and subjects of Her Majesty by
birth or naturalization. R.S., c. 170, s. 19.

**20.** Vacancies occurring in the board of
directors may be filled for the remainder of
the term by the directors from among the
qualified shareholders of the company ; but if
the vacancies are not filled, the acts of a
quorum of the remaining directors are not
thereby invalidated. R.S., c. 170, s. 20.

**21.** (1) The directors, as soon as may be
after their election, shall from among them
of the board of directors.
(2) Where the number of directors is more
six, the directors may, by by-law duly
by the directors and confirmed by at
least two-thirds of the votes cast at a special
general meeting of the company duly called
for considering the by-law, provide for the
election from their number of an executive
committee of not less than three members.
(3) The executive committee may fix its
quorum at not less than a majority of its
members and may, subject to any restriction
in its constituting by-law or in regulations
made by the directors, exercise such of the
powers of the directors as are delegated to it
by that by-law.
(4) None of the powers conferred on the
directors by paragraphs 26(l)(o),(6),(d) and (e),
sections 27, 29, 30, 32, 36, subsection 37(1) and
sections 40, 41, 58, 65, 67, 68, 81 and 82 shall
be delegated to an executive committee under
this section. R.S., c. 170, s. 21.

**22.** (1) The chairman of the board, or in
his absence or if there is no chairman of the
board, the president or a vice-president, shall
preside at meetings of the board, but if none
of such officers is present at any meeting of
the board, a chairman selected by the directors
present shall preside at the meeting.
(2) The president, or in his absence a vice-
president or the chairman of the board, shall
preside at all meetings of the shareholders,
but if none of such officers is present at any
meeting of the shareholders, a chairman
selected by the shareholders present shall
preside at the meeting.
(3) The person presiding may vote as a
director at meetings of the board and as a
shareholder at meetings of shareholders, and
in case of an equality of votes at any meeting
he shall have a second or casting vote. R.S.,
c. 170, s. 22.

**23.** (1) Where a vacancy occurs in the
Q{ pregident or v i c e-president, the
directors shall from themselves elect a presi
dent or vice-president who continues in office
until the next election of directors.
(2) Where at any time an election of
is not made or does not take effect
at the proper time, the company shall not be
held to be thereby dissolved, but such election
may take place at any general meeting of the
company duly called for that purpose, and
the retiring directors continue in office until
their successors are elected. R.S., c. 170, s. 23.

**24.** The directors may establish branch
offices and local advisory boards within
Canada or elsewhere at such times and in
such manner as they deem expedient. R.S., c.
170, s. 24.

**25.** The directors may in all things admin
ister the affairs of the company and may
make or cause to be made for the company
any description of contract that the company
may by law enter into. R.S., c. 170, s. 25.
By-Laws

**26.** (1) The directors may make by-laws
not contrary to law or to this Act or to any
by-law duly passed by the shareholders for
  * (_a_) regulating the allotment of stock, mak
ing calls thereon, the payment thereof, the
issue and registration of certificates of stock,
the issue of share warrants, the forfeiture of
stock for non-payment, the disposal of
forfeited stock and of the proceeds thereof,
and the transfer of stock ;
(6) the declaration and payment of divi
dends;
  * (_c_) the appointment, functions, duties and
removal of all agents, officers and servants
of the company, the security to be given by
them to the company and their remunera
tion;
  * (_d_) the time and place for holding meetings
of the board of directors, and the procedure
in all things at such meetings ;
  * (_e_) the imposition and recovery of all
penalties and forfeitures admitting of
regulation by by-law ; and
subsection (1) ceases to be in force at
the date of the next following annual general
meeting unless it is confirmed at that meeting.
(3) Where a special general meeting, called
for the purpose of confirming a by-law made
under subsection (1) or called for that and
any other purpose, is held before the next
following annual general meeting, the by-law
ceases to be in force at the date of the special
general meeting unless it is confirmed at that
special general meeting, and subsection (2)
does not apply to a by-law that is so
confirmed. R.S., c. 170, s. 26.
Capital Stock and Calls Thereon

**27.** (1) The capital stock of a loan company
shall be divided into shares of one hundred
dollars each.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a com
pany may, if authorized by by-law duly
passed by the directors and confirmed by at
least two-thirds of the votes cast at a special
general meeting of the shareholders duly
called for considering the by-law, provide that
the capital stock may be divided into shares
of one dollar, or any multiple thereof not
exceeding one hundred dollars, each. 1958, c.
35,s.5; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 37.

**28.** The stock of the company is personal
estate, and is transferable in such manner
only, and subject to such conditions and
restrictions as are prescribed by this Act, or
the by-laws of the company. R.S., c. 170, s.

**28.**

**29.** (1) Where any shares issued by the
company are not fully paid up, the directors
may make calls upon the holders thereof, at
such times and places and in such amounts as
are required or allowed by this Act and the
by-laws made thereunder.
(2) The first of such calls shall not in respect
of shares subscribed after the organization of
the company exceed twenty-five per cent, and
no subsequent call in respect of shares
before or after organization shall
ten per cent, and not less than thirty
days notice shall be given of any call, and
notice of call may be effectually given
by sending the notice by registered mail to
the latest known address of each shareholder
as contained in the books of the company.
(3) There shall be an interval of not less
than thirty days between the times at which
successive calls are payable.
(4) Interest accrues and falls due, at the
rate of five per cent per annum, upon the
amount of any unpaid call, from the day
appointed for payment of such call.
(5) The directors may if they think fit
receive from any shareholder willing to
advance the same all or any part of the
money due upon the shares held by him
beyond the sums actually called for; and
upon the money so paid in advance or so
much thereof as from time to time exceeds
the amount of the calls then due upon the
shares in respect of which such advance has
been made, the company may pay interest at
such rate as the shareholder paying such sum
in advance and the directors may agree upon.
R.S., c. 170,s.29.

**30.** (1) Where any shareholder fails to pay
any call or instalment on or before the day
appointed for the payment of the same, the
directors may at any time thereafter during
such time as the call or instalment remains
unpaid, send a notice to such shareholder by
registered mail to his latest known address as
shown by the books of the company, requesting
him to pay the same together with any
interest that may have accrued.
(2) The notice shall name a day not less
than thirty days from the date of mailing the
notice and a place or places on and at which
such call or instalment and such interest are
to be paid.
(3) Such notice shall also state that in the
event of non-payment at or before the time
and at the place appointed, the shares in
(4) Where the requisitions of any such
notice are not complied with, any shares in
respect of which the notice has been given
may at any time thereafter, before payment
of all calls or instalments and interest due in
respect thereof, be forfeited by resolution of
the directors to that effect ; and such forfeiture
includes all dividends declared in respect of
the forfeited shares and not actually paid
before the forfeiture.
(5) Notwithstanding such forfeiture, the
holder of the shares at the time of forfeiture
continues to be liable to the creditors of the
company at such time for the full amount
unpaid on such shares at the time of forfeiture,
less any sums that are subsequently received
by the company in respect thereof.
(6) When any share has been so forfeited,
notice by registered mail as aforesaid of the
resolution shall be given to the shareholder
in whose name it stood immediately prior to
the forfeiture, and an entry of the forfeiture
with the date thereof shall forthwith be made
in the proper books of the company.
(7) Any share so forfeited shall be deemed
to be the property of the company, and the
directors may sell, re-allot and otherwise
dispose of the share in such manner as they
think fit.
(8) The directors may, at any time before
any share so forfeited has been sold, re-
allotted or otherwise disposed of, annul the
forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as
they think fit. R.S., c. 170, s. 30.

**31.** (1) No share is transferable until all
calls due thereon up to the date of transfer
have been fully paid or until it is declared
forfeited for non-payment of a call or calls
thereon.
(2) No transfer of shares in respect of which
the whole amount subscribed has not been
stock of the company as preference
which preference stock may be preferred
in any respect and deferred in any other
respect ; and without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, such preference stock may
be either preferred or deferred in matters of
the division of profits, payment of dividends
and bonuses, election of directors, voting at
meetings, rank as regards capital, and in
winding-up proceedings and in such other
matters and respects as may be deemed
advisable and as any such by-law may
provide.
(2) No by-law made under subsection (1)
has any force or effect whatever until after it
has been unanimously sanctioned by a vote
of the shareholders present in person or
represented by proxy at a general meeting of
the company duly called for considering the
by-law, and representing two-thirds of the
subscribed and issued stock of the company,
or unanimously sanctioned in writing by the
shareholders of the company.
(3) Where the by-law is sanctioned by not
less than three-fourths in value of the
shareholders of the company, the company
may through the Minister petition the
Governor in Council for an order approving
the by-law, and the Governor in Council may,
if he sees fit, approve the by-law, and from
the date of such approval the by-law is valid
and may be acted upon.
(4) Holders of shares of such preference
stock are shareholders within the meaning of
this Act, and in all respects possess the rights
and are subject to the liabilities of shareholders
within the meaning of this Act ; but in respect
of dividends and otherwise they are as against
the ordinary shareholders entitled to the
preferences and rights given by such by-law.
(5) Nothing in this section or done in
pursuance thereof affects or impairs the rights
of creditors of the company. R.S., c. 170, s. 32.
Procedure

**33.** (1) The company may enforce payment
all calls and interest thereon by action in
court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) In such action it is not necessary to set
forth the special matter, but it is sufficient to
declare that the defendant is a holder of one
share or more, stating the number of shares,
and is indebted to the company in the sum of
money to which the calls in arrears amount,
in respect of one call or more, stating the
number of calls and the amount of each call,
whereby an action has accrued to the company
under this Act. R.S., c. 170, ss. 33, 34.

**34.** (1) Service of any process or notice
upon the company may be made by leaving
a copy thereof at the head office of the
company with any adult person in charge
thereof, or elsewhere with the president or
secretary of the company.
(2) Where the company has no known office
and has no known president or secretary, the
court may order such publication as it deems
requisite to be made in the premises, for at
least one month and in at least one newspaper.
(3) Such publication shall be deemed to be
due service upon the company. R.S., c. 170, s.

**35.**

**35.** Any description of action may be
prosecuted and maintained between the
company and any shareholder thereof. R.S.,
c. 170, s. 36.
Increase of Capital Stock

**36.** (1) The directors may, after the whole
authorized capital stock of the company has
been subscribed and fifty per cent paid
thereon in cash, increase the capital stock to
an amount not exceeding the sum named for
that purpose in the company s Act of
incorporation.
(2) The stock shall not be increased until a
resolution of the board of directors authorizing
such increase has been first submitted to and
confirmed by the shareholders present or
represented by proxy at a special general
meeting of the shareholders of the company
called for that purpose, the vote in
of such resolution being that of
holding not less than two-thirds
the subscribed capital stock of the company.
R.S., c. 170, s. 37.
Decrease of Capital Stock

**37.** (1) The directors may by by-law pro
vide for the decrease of the capital stock of
the company to any amount that they
consider sufficient, but not less than the
minimum amounts required by law to be
subscribed for and paid up before the company
is authorized to commence business.
(2) Such by-law shall declare the number of
the shares of the stock so decreased and the
allotment thereof, or the rules by which the
allotment is to be made.
(3) The liability of shareholders to persons
who are, at the time the stock is decreased,
creditors of the company remains as though
the stock had not been decreased.
(4) No by-law for decreasing the capital
stock of the company has any force or effect
unless and until it has been sanctioned by a
vote of the shareholders present or represented
by proxy at a general meeting of the company
duly called for considering such by-law, such
vote being that of shareholders holding not
less than two-thirds of the subscribed and
issued capital stock of the company, and has
afterwards been confirmed by a certificate of
the Minister given under the authority of the
Treasury Board.
(5) Upon the application to the Minister
for a certificate confirming such by-law, the
company shall satisfy him of the bona fide
character of the decrease of the capital thereby
provided for; and, unless it appears that the
granting of such certificate would not be in
the public interest, the Minister, with the
approval of the Treasury Board, may grant
the certificate; but with the consent of the
directors the amount of such decrease of
capital may, by the said certificate, be
changed, and the decrease made subject to
such conditions as the Treasury Board may
think proper. R.S., c. 170, ss. 39-42; 1958, c.
35, s. 6.
Share Warrants

**38.** (1) The company may, if so provided
by-law with respect to any share that is
fully paid up, issue under its common seal a
warrant stating that the bearer of the warrant
is entitled to the share or shares therein
specified, and may provide by coupons or
otherwise for the payment of the future
dividends on the share or shares included in
the warrant, hereinafter referred to as a
"share warrant".
(2) A share warrant entitles the bearer of
the share warrant to the shares specified in it,
and such shares may be transferred by the
delivery of the share warrant.
(3) The bearer of a share warrant is, subject
to the by-laws of the company, entitled on
surrendering the share warrant for cancellation
to have his name entered as a shareholder in
the books of the company, and the company
is responsible for any loss incurred by any
person by reason of the company entering in
its books the name of any bearer of a share
warrant in respect of the shares specified
therein without the share warrant being
surrendered and cancelled.
(4) The bearer of a share warrant may, if
the by-law so provides, be deemed to be a
shareholder of the company within the
meaning of this Act either to the full extent
or for such purposes as are prescribed by the
by-laws, but the bearer of a share warrant is
not qualified, in respect of the shares specified
in the share warrant, to be a director of the
company.
(5) On the issue of a share warrant in
respect of any share or shares, the company
shall strike out of its books the name of the
shareholder then entered therein as holding
such share or shares as if he had ceased to be
a shareholder, and shall enter in the books
the following particulars :
  * (_a_) the fact of the issue of the share
warrant ;
(6) a statement of the number of shares
included in the share warrant ; and
  * (_c_) the date of the issue of the share
warrant ;
and until the share warrant is surrendered the
above particulars shall be deemed to be the
particulars that are required by section 42 to
of such share or shares, and on the
of a share warrant the date of such
shall be entered as if it were the
date at which a person ceased to be a
(6) The by-laws may determine the condi
tions upon which share warrants shall be
issued, and in particular upon which a new
share warrant or coupon will be issued in
place of one worn out, defaced, lost or
destroyed, and the conditions upon which the
bearer of a share warrant shall be entitled to
attend and vote at general meetings, and
upon which a share warrant may be surren
dered and the name of the holder entered in
the books of the company in respect of the
shares therein specified.
(7) Unless the bearer of a share warrant is
entitled to attend and vote at general
meetings, the shares represented by such share
warrant are not counted as part of the stock
of the company for the purposes of a general
meeting.
(8) The holder of a share warrant is subject
to the by-laws for the time being in force,
whether made before or after the issue of the
share warrant. R.S., c. 170, s. 43.
Shareholders Liabilities

**39.** (i) Every shareholder is, until the
whole amount of his stock has been paid,
individually liable to the company to an
amount equal to that not paid up thereon.
(2) The shareholders of the company shall
not, as such, be held responsible for any act,
default or liability whatever of the company
or for any engagement, claim, payment, loss,
injury, transaction, matter or thing whatever
relating to or connected with the company
beyond the amount unpaid on their respective
shares in the capital stock thereof.
(3) No person holding stock in the company
as an executor, administrator, tutor, curator,
guardian or trustee, is personally subject to
liability as a shareholder ; but the estate and
funds in the hands of such person are liable
in like manner and to the same extent as the
fund if he were competent to act and
holding such stock in his own name,
be liable.
(4) No person holding stock in the company
as collateral security is personally subject to
liability as a shareholder; but the person
pledging such stock shall be considered as
holding the stock and is liable as a shareholder
accordingly. R.S., c. 170, ss. 44-47.
Transmission of Interest in Shares, Debenture
Stock, etc.

**40.** (1) Where a transmission of shares or
securities of the company takes place by
reason of the death of any person,
  * (_a_) the production to an officer of the
company, or to any other person authorized
by the directors of the company for the
purpose, of the document of transmission,
and
  * (_b_) the deposit with such officer or other
person of
  * (_i_) the document of transmission, or a
copy thereof, and
  * (_ii_) a declaration in writing showing the
nature of the transmission, signed by such
one or more of the persons claiming by
virtue thereof as the company may
require,
is sufficient justification and authority to the
directors for paying the amount or value of
any dividend, obligation or share, or transfer
ring or consenting to the transfer of any
obligation or share, in pursuance of and in
conformity with the document of transmission.
(2) In this section "document of transmis
sion" means
  * (_a_) a document purporting to be granted or
issued by any court or competent authority
in Canada or elsewhere and being
  * (_i_) letters probate of the will of the
deceased person,
  * (_ii_) letters of administration of the estate
of the deceased person, or
  * (_iii_) any other judicial or official instru
ment under which the title, whether
beneficial or as trustee, or the adminis
tration or control of the personal estate
of the deceased person is claimed to vest
or to be confirmed,
(6) a copy of any document described in
paragraph (a), or an extract therefrom,
purporting to be authenticated under the
seal of the court or competent authority, or
  * (_c_) a notarial copy of the will of the
deceased person, if the will is in notarial or
authentic form according to the law of the
Province of Quebec. R.S., c. 170, s. 48.

**41.** (1) Whenever the directors entertain
reasonable doubts as to the legality of any
claim to or upon such shares, bonds, deben
tures, obligations, dividends or coupons, or
the proceeds thereof, or any deposit or any
other moneys payable by or in the hands of
the company, then and in such cases the
directors may file in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the province in which the head
office of the company is situated a petition
stating such doubts, and praying for an order
or judgment adjudicating and awarding the
said shares, bonds, debentures, obligations,
dividends, coupons, or proceeds thereof or
any deposit or any other moneys payable by
or in the hands of the company to the parties
legally entitled thereto.
(2) Such court has authority to restrain any
action, suit or proceedings against the com
pany, the directors and officers thereof, for
the same subject-matter, pending the deter
mination of the petition, and the company
and the directors and officers thereof are fully
protected and indemnified by obedience to
such order or judgment against all actions,
suits, claims and demands in respect of the
matters that have been in question in such
petition, and the proceedings thereupon.
(3) Where the court adjudges that such
doubts were reasonable, the costs, charges and
expenses of the company in and about such
petition and proceedings, form a lien upon
such shares, bonds, debentures, obligations,
dividends, coupons or proceeds thereof or any
deposit or any other moneys payable by or in
the hands of the company, and shall be paid
to the company before the directors are
obliged to transfer, or assent to the transfer
of or to pay such shares, bonds, debentures,
dividends, coupons or proceeds
or any deposit or any other moneys
by or in the hands of the company
the parties found entitled thereto. R.S., c.
170, s. 49.
Books of The Company

**42.** (1) The company shall cause a book or
books to be kept by the secretary, or by some
other officer specially charged with that duty,
wherein shall be kept recorded
  * (_a_) a copy of the special Act of incorpora
tion, with all amendments thereto, and all
by-laws of the company ;
(6) the names, alphabetically arranged, of
all persons who are shareholders, together
with the address and calling of every such
person as far as can be ascertained ;
  * (_c_) the number of shares of stock held by
each shareholder ;
  * (_d_) the amounts paid in, and remaining
unpaid, respectively, on the shares of stock
of each shareholder;
  * (_e_) all transfers of stock, in their order as
presented to the company for entry, with
the date and other particulars of each
transfer, and the date of the entry thereof ;
  * (_f_) particulars of outstanding share war
rants;
  * (_g_) the names, addresses and callings of all
persons who are or have been directors of
the company, with the several dates at
which each became or ceased to be a
director;
  * (_h_) where debentures of the company are
payable to registered holders, a register
wherein shall be set forth the names and
addresses of persons holding such deben
tures, with the respective amounts thereof
to which they are respectively entitled and
the numbers by which the debenture
certificates are distinguished ;
0) all transfers of registered debentures in
their order as presented to the company for
entry, with the date and other particulars
of each transfer, and the date of entry
thereof; and
  * (_j_) a similar register and transfer book for
debenture stock.
(2) Books kept pursuant to subsection (1)
shall be kept at the head office of the
company, except that where the particulars
mentioned in paragraphs (l)(6),(c),(d) and (e)
are recorded in books kept by a branch office,
or by an agent who has been appointed by
the company for the purpose of recording the
transfer of its shares and who has an
established place of business in Canada, at
which the right of inspection conferred by
section 49 can be exercised, the books
containing the particulars mentioned in
paragraph (l)&amp;lt;e) need not be kept at the head
office of the company.
(3) The company shall keep books of
account adequate to enable it to prepare the
annual statement required by section 70, and
the books of account respecting liabilities to
the public shall be kept separate and distinct
from other books of account of the company.
R.S., c. 170,s. 50; 1958, c. 35, s. 7.

**43.** (1) No transfer of stock of the company,
unless made by sale under execution or under
the decree, order or judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, is, until it has been
recorded in books kept pursuant to section 42,
valid for any purpose whatever except for the
purpose of exhibiting the rights of the parties
thereto as between each other and of rendering
the transferee liable, in the meantime, jointly
and severally with the transferor, to the
company and its creditors.
(2) A transfer of stock recorded in a book
kept pursuant to section 42, whether kept at
the head office of the company or elsewhere,
is, for all purposes, a complete and valid
transfer.
(3) A company may close the books in
which transfers of stock are recorded for any
time or times not exceeding in the whole
thirty days in each year.
(4) The court of the province or territory in
which the head office or chief place of business
of the company is situated, has jurisdiction,
on the application of any person interested,
to order that any entry in the books for the
and transfer of shares of the
stock of a company be struck out or
rectified on the ground that at the
date of such application the entry as it
appears in any book does not accurately
express or define the existing rights of the
person appearing to be the registered owner
of any shares of the capital stock of the
company; and the court, in deciding such
application, may make such order as to costs
as the court may deem proper.
(5) An application under subsection (4) may
be made by filing with the proper officer of
the court a petition, an originating summons
or a notice of motion; and the court may
direct the trial of any issue arising out of the
application.
(6) In this section "court" means in British
Columbia, Alberta, Ontario, New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, and Prince
Edward Island, the Supreme Court of those
Provinces respectively ; in Quebec, the Superi
or Court; in Manitoba and Saskatchewan,
Her Majesty s Court of Queen s Bench for
those Provinces respectively ; in the Yukon
Territory, the Territorial Court; and in the
Northwest Territories, the Territorial Court.
R.S., c. 170,s.51; 1958, c. 35, s. 8.

**44.** (i) j n this section and sections 45 to 48
"corporation" includes an association, part
nership or other organization;
"non-resident" means
  * (_a_) an individual who is not ordinarily
resident in Canada,
(6) a corporation incorporated, formed or
otherwise organized, elsewhere than in
Canada,
  * (_c_) a corporation that is controlled directly
or indirectly by non-residents as defined in
paragraph (a) or (5),
  * (_d_) a trust established by a non-resident as
defined in paragraph (a), (6) or (c), or a
trust in which non-residents as so defined
have more than fifty per cent of the
beneficial interest, or
  * (_e_) a corporation that is controlled directly
or indirectly by a trust mentioned in
paragraph (of) ;
"resident" means an individual, corporation
or trust that is not a non-resident.
(2) For the purposes of sections 45 to 48, a
is deemed to be associated with
another shareholder if
  * (_a_) one shareholder is a corporation of
which the other shareholder is an officer or
director ;
(6) one shareholder is a partnership of
which the other shareholder is a partner ;
  * (_c_) one shareholder is a corporation that is
controlled directly or indirectly by the other
shareholder ;
  * (_d_) both shareholders are corporations and
one shareholder is controlled directly or
indirectly by the same individual or
corporation that controls directly or
indirectly the other shareholder;
  * (_e_) both shareholders are members of a
voting trust where the trust relates to shares
of the company ; or
(/) both shareholders are associated within
the meaning of paragraphs (a) to (e) with
the same shareholder.
(3) For the purposes of sections 45 to 48,
where a share of the capital stock of a
company is held jointly and one or more of
the joint holders thereof is a non-resident, the
share is deemed to be held by a non-resident.
1964-65, c. 40, s. 38.

**45.** (1) The directors of a company shall
refuse to allow in the book or books referred
to in section 42 the entry of a transfer of any
share of the capital stock of the company to
a non-resident
  * (_a_) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
non-residents exceeds twenty-five per cent
of the total number of issued and outstand
ing shares of such stock, the entry of the
transfer would increase the number of such
shares held by non-residents ;
(6) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
non-residents is twenty-five per cent or iess
of the total number of issued and outstand
ing shares of such stock, the entry of the
transfer would cause the total number of
such shares of stock held by non-residents
to exceed twenty-five per cent of the total
number of issued and outstanding shares of
such stock;
  * (_c_) when the total number of shares of the
capital stock of the company held by the
non-resident and by other shareholders
associated with him, if any, exceeds ten per
cent of the total number of issued and
outstanding shares of such stock; or
  * (_d_) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
the non-resident and by other shareholders
associated with him, if any, is ten per cent
or less of the total number of issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the entry
of the transfer would cause the number of
such shares of stock held by the non-resident
and by other shareholders associated with
him, if any, to exceed ten per cent of the
issued and outstanding shares of such stock.
(2) The directors of a company shall not,
after the day of commencement of the first
general meeting of the shareholders of the
company, allot, or allow the allotment of,
any shares of the capital stock of the company
to any non-resident in circumstances where,
if the allotment to such non-resident were a
transfer of those shares, the entry thereof in
such book or books would be required, under
subsection (1), to be refused by the directors.
(3) Default in complying with the provisions
of this section does not affect the validity of
a transfer or allotment of a share of the
capital stock of the company that has been
entered in the book or books referred to in
section 42, but every director who knowingly
authorizes or permits such default is guilty of
an offence punishable on summary conviction
and is liable to a fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both. 1964-
65, c. 40, s. 38.

**46.** (1) Where a resident holds shares of
the capital stock of a company in the right
of, or for the use or benefit of, a non-resident,
resident shall not, either in person or by
exercise the voting rights pertaining to
shares.
either as proxy or in person, exercise the
voting rights pertaining to such shares held
by the non-resident or in his right or for his
use or benefit, if the total of such shares so
held, together with such shares held in the
name or right of or for the use or benefit of
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
non-resident, or
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
44(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat
ed with the non-resident were such persons
and the non-resident themselves sharehold
ers,
exceed in number ten per cent of the issued
and outstanding shares of such stock.
(3) Every person who knowingly contra
venes a provision of this section is guilty of
an offence punishable on summary conviction
and is liable to a fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both.
(4) If any provision of this section is
contravened at a general meeting of the
company, no proceeding, matter or thing at
that meeting is void by reason only of such
contravention, but any such proceeding,
matter or thing is, at any time within one
year from the day of commencement of the
general meeting at which the contravention
occurred, voidable at the option of the
shareholders by a resolution passed at a
special general meeting of the company. 1964-
65, c. 40, s. 38.

**47.** (1) The directors of a company may
make such by-laws as they deem necessary to
carry out the intent of sections 44 to 48 and
in particular, but without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, the directors may
make by-laws
  * (_a_) requiring any person holding any share
of the capital stock of the company to
submit declarations
  * (_i_) with respect to the ownership of such
share,
  * (_ii_) with respect to the place in which the
shareholder and any person for whose use
or benefit the share is held are ordinarily
resident,
  * (_iii_) whether the shareholder is associated
with any other shareholder, and
  * (_iv_) with respect to such other matters as
the directors may deem relevant for the
purposes of sections 44 to 48 ;
(6) prescribing the times at which and the
manner in which any declarations required
under paragraph (a) are to be submitted ;
and
  * (_c_) requiring any person desiring to have a
transfer of a share to him entered in the
book or books referred to in section 42 to
submit such a declaration as may be
required pursuant to this section in the case
of a shareholder.
(2) Where pursuant to any by-law made
under subsection (1) any declaration is
required to be submitted by any shareholder
or person in respect of the transfer of any
share, the directors may refuse to enter such
transfer in the book or books referred to in
section 42 until the required declaration has
been completed and submitted. 1964-65, c. 40,
s. 38.

**48.** (1) In this section
"associates of the non-resident" means, with
reference to any particular day,
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
non-resident on that day, and
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
44(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat
ed with the non-resident on that day were
such persons and the non-resident them
selves shareholders ;
"prescribed day" means the 23rd day of
September 1964;
"shares held by or for the non-resident and
associates" means, with reference to any
particular day, the aggregate number of
shares held on that day in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of the non
resident and associates of the non-resident
on that day.
(2) Where more than fifty per cent of the
and outstanding shares of the capital
of a company are held in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of one non
resident
  * (_a_) at the commencement of the prescribed
day, in the case of a company incorporated
before that day, or
(6) on the day of commencement of the
first general meeting of the shareholders of
the company, in the case of a company
incorporated on or after the prescribed day,
sections 45 to 47 do not apply to or in respect
of that company ; but if at any time thereafter
there is no one non-resident in whose name
or right or for whose use or benefit more than
fifty per cent of the issued and outstanding
shares of the capital stock of the company are
held, those sections apply from and after that
time to and in respect of that company.
(3) Where at the commencement of the
prescribed day the number of shares of the
capital stock of a company held in the name
or right of or for the use or benefit of a non
resident together with the number of such
shares, if any, held at the commencement of
that day in the name or right of or for the
use or benefit of any associates of the non
resident exceed ten per cent of the number of
shares of such stock at that time issued and
outstanding, the voting rights pertaining to
the shares held in the name or right of or for
the use or benefit of the non-resident may
notwithstanding subsection 46(2) be exercised,
in person or by proxy, so long as the
percentage of such shares held by or for the
non-resident and associates does not exceed
either the percentage of such shares held by
or for the non-resident and associates at the
commencement of the prescribed day or the
smallest percentage of such shares held by or
for the non-resident and associates on any
subsequent day ; but this subsection shall not
be construed to prohibit the exercise of voting
rights in circumstances where section 46 does
not apply.
(4) Where after the 17th day of March 1965
a corporation that was at any time a resident
becomes a non-resident, any shares of the
capital stock of the company acquired by the
to be shares held by a resident for the use
benefit of a non-resident.
(5) Where on or after the prescribed day
the par value of shares of the capital stock of
the company is reduced, the directors of the
company may, notwithstanding subsection
45(2), allot shares of the capital stock of the
company of the reduced par value to a non
resident who is a shareholder in exchange for
shares of such stock of the unreduced par
value but not so as thereby to effect an
increase in the aggregate par value of the
shares of such stock held by the non-resident.
(6) The directors of a company may,
notwithstanding section 45, allow in the book
or books referred to in section 42 the entry of
a transfer of any share of the capital stock of
the company from a resident to a non-resident
where it is shown to the directors on evidence
satisfactory to them that the share was at the
commencement of the prescribed day held by
the resident in the right of or for the use or
benefit of the non-resident.
(7) if a t a ny time on or after the prescribed
day and before the 18th day of March 1965
the directors of a company allow, in the book
or books referred to in section 42, the entry of
any transfer or allotment of any share of the
capital stock of the company to a non-resident
that they would have been required to refuse
or prevent under section 45 had that section
come into force on the prescribed day, no
person shall, as proxy or in person, exercise
the voting rights pertaining to such share so
long as the share is held in the name or right
of or for the use or benefit of any non
resident.
  * (_g_) Subsections 46(3) and (4) apply to the
contravention of any provision of subsection
(7) of this section.
(9) j n determining for the purposes of
sections 44 to 48 whether a person is a resident
or non-resident, by whom a corporation is
to the performance of their duties under those
the directors of the company may
rely upon any statements made in any
declarations submitted under section 47 or
rely upon their own knowledge of the
circumstances ; and the directors are not liable
in any action for anything done or omitted
by them in good faith as a result of any
conclusions made by them on the basis of any
such statements or knowledge. 1964-65, c. 40,
s. 38.

**49.** The books mentioned in subsection
42(1) shall, during reasonable business hours
of every business day of the company, be kept
open for the inspection of shareholders and
creditors of the company and their personal
representatives and of any judgment creditor
of a shareholder, any of whom may make
extracts therefrom, at the place or places
where they are respectively kept as authorized
by that section. R.S., c. 170, s. 52.
Meetings and Voting

**50.** An annual general meeting of the
company shall be called at its head office
once in each year after the organization of
the company and the commencement of
business, and at such meeting a statement of
the affairs of the company shall be submitted.
R.S., c. 170, s. 53(1).
5 1. Special general meetings may be called
by any three of the directors, or the directors
shall upon a written requisition signed by any
twenty-five shareholders, specifying in the
requisition the object of the meeting, call such
special general meeting and notice thereof
shall be given as provided in the by-laws of
the company. R.S., c. 170, s. 53(2).

**52.** (1) The directors shall, at least ten
days before the date on which the annual
general meeting is to be held, forward through
the mail a copy of the statement of the affairs
of the company to each shareholder at his
latest known address as shown by the records
of the company together with a notice of the
time and place at which the meeting will be
and the names of the auditors eligible
appointment at the meeting under the
hereinafter set out.
(2) A certificate forming part of such
shall be appended thereto and shall
be signed by the manager, general manager
or other chief executive officer of the company
and not less than two of the directors, and
shall state that to the best of their knowledge
and belief the statement is correct and shows
truly and clearly the financial condition of
the company s affairs. R.S., c. 170, s. 53(3),(4).

**53.** No shareholder who is in arrears in
respect of a call upon any share is entitled to
vote in respect of such share at any meeting
of the company. R.S., c. 170, s. 54.

**54.** In the absence of other provisions in
that behalf in the by-laws of the company,
notice of the time and place for holding
general meetings, of the company shall be
given at least ten days prior thereto, in a
newspaper published at the place in which
the head office of the company is situated, or
if there is no newspaper published there, in
the newspaper published nearest thereto. R.S.,
c. 170, s. 55.

**55.** Subject to this Act and the by-laws
made hereunder every shareholder is entitled
to as many votes at all general meetings of
the company as he owns shares in the company
and may vote by proxy, but the holder of a
proxy must himself be a shareholder and
entitled to vote. R.S., c. 170, s. 56(1).

**56.** In all cases where the votes of the
shareholders are taken the voting shall be by
ballot. R.S., c. 170, s. 56(2).

**57.** Every executor, administrator, tutor,
curator, guardian or trustee represents the
stock in his possession in his fiduciary capacity
at all meetings of the company, and may vote
as a shareholder. R.S., c. 170, s. 57.
Audit

**58.** (1) The shareholders shall at each
annual general meeting appoint an auditor
or auditors to hold office until the next
annual general meeting.
(2) If an appointment of auditors is not
made at an annual general meeting, the
Minister may, on the application of any
shareholder, appoint an auditor of the
company for the current year and fix the
remuneration to be paid to him by the
company for his sen-ices.
(3) A director or officer of the company is
not capable of being appointed auditor of the
company.
(4) A person other than a retiring auditor
is not capable of being appointed auditor at
an annual general meeting, unless notice of
an intention to nominate that person to the
office of auditor has been given by a
shareholder to the company not less than
fifteen days before the annual general
meeting, and the company shall send a copy
of any such notice to the retiring auditor and
shall give notice thereof to the shareholders
as in this Act provided.
(5) The first auditors of the company may
be appointed by the directors before the first
annual general meeting, but shall only hold
office by virtue of such appointment until the
time of such meeting.
(6) The directors may fill any casual
vacancy in the office of auditor, but while
any such vacancy continues the surviving or
continuing auditor, if any, may act.
(7) The remuneration of the auditors of the
company shall be fixed by the shareholders
at each annual general meeting, except that
the remuneration of any auditors appointed
before the first annual general meeting or to
fill any casual vacancy may be fixed by the
directors. R.S., c. 170, s. 58.

**59.** (1) Every auditor of a company has a
right of access at all times to the books and
accounts and vouchers of the company, and
is entitled to require from the directors and
officers of the company such information and
explanation as may be necessary for the
performance of the duties of an auditor.
(2) The auditors shall make a report
  * (_a_) to the shareholders on the statement
submitted to them as required by section
50; and
  * (_b_) to the Superintendent on the annual
statement to be deposited in the Department
in pursuance of this Act.
(3) The report in each case shall state
whether the auditors have obtained all the
information and explanations they have
required and shall state in addition,
  * (_a_) in the report to the shareholders,
whether in the opinion of the auditors the
statement exhibits a true and correct view
of the state of the company s affairs as at
the date of the statement and of the results
of the operations of the company during
the year that ended on that date according
to the best of their information and the
explanations given to them and as shown
by the books of the company ; and
(6) in the report to the Superintendent,
whether in the opinion of the auditors the
statement exhibits a true and correct view
of the assets and liabilities of the company
as at the date of the statement, the income
and expenditure of the company during the
year that ended on that date and the results
of the operations of the company for that
year according to the best of their informa
tion and the explanations given to them
and as shown by the books of the company.
(4) A copy of the auditors report to the
shareholders shall be attached to and sent to
each shareholder with the statement to be
forwarded to him through the mail under this
Act. R.S., c. 170, s. 59; 1958, c. 35, s. 9; 1964-
65, c. 40, s. 39.
Powers of the Company
6Q. (1) The company may invest its funds
in
  * (_a_) the debentures, bonds, stocks or other
securities
  * (_i_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of Canada,
  * (_ii_) of or guaranteed by the government
of any province of Canada,
  * (_iii_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of the United Kingdom, or of any colony
or dependency thereof,
  * (_iv_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of the United States or of a state thereof,
  * (_v_) of or guaranteed by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop
ment established by the Agreement for
an International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development approved by the Bretton
Woods Agreements Act,
  * (_vi_) of any municipal or school corpora
tion in Canada,
  * (_vii_) guaranteed by any municipal corpo
ration in Canada, or
  * (_viii_) secured by rates or taxes, levied
under the authority of the government of
any province of Canada on property
situated in such province and collectable
by the municipalities in which such
property is situated ;
(6) the bonds, debentures, debenture stock
or other securities of any company incor
porated under the laws of Canada or of any
province of Canada, or of any former
province now forming part of Canada, that
are secured by a mortgage or hypothec to
trustees or a trust corporation or otherwise,
upon improved real estate of such company
or other assets of such company of the
classes mentioned in paragraph (a) ;
  * (_c_) the bonds, debentures, notes or other
obligations whether secured or unsecured of
any such company that has earned and
paid regular cash dividends of not less than
four per cent per annum on its issued stock
for a term of at least five years immediately
preceding the date of investment in such
bonds, debentures, notes or other obliga
tions ;
  * (_d_) the preferred stocks of any such company
that has paid regular dividends upon such
stocks or upon its common stocks for not
less than five years immediately preceding
the purchase of such preferred stocks, or the
stocks of any such company that are
guaranteed by a company incorporated as
aforesaid that has paid regular dividends
upon its preferred or common stocks for not
less than five years immediately preceding
the purchase of such guaranteed stocks, if
the amount of stocks so guaranteed is not
in excess of fifty per cent of the amount of
the preferred or common stocks, as the case
may be, of the guaranteeing company;
  * (_e_) the fully paid common shares of any
such company or of any chartered bank in
Canada that during a period of five years
ended less than one year before the
of investment has either
  * (_i_) paid a dividend in each such year
upon its common shares, or
  * (_ii_) had earnings in each such year
available for the payment of a dividend
upon its common shares,
of at least four per cent of the average
value at which the shares were carried in
the capital stock account of such company
or chartered bank during the year in which
the dividend was paid or in which the
company or chartered bank had earnings
available for the payment of dividends, as
the case may be, but not more than thirty
per cent of the common shares and not
more than thirty per cent of the total issue
of the shares of any company or bank shall
be purchased by the company;
  * (_f_) mortgages or hypothecs on real estate or
leaseholds in Canada or in any country in
which the company is carrying on business,
but the amount paid for the mortgage or
hypothec, together with the amount of
indebtedness under any mortgage or hypo
thec on the real estate or leasehold ranking
equally with or superior to the mortgage or
hypothec in which the investment is made,
shall not exceed three-quarters of the value
of the real estate or leasehold ; or
  * (_g_) real estate in Canada for the production
of income, either alone or jointly with any
loan company, trust company or insurance
company incorporated in Canada, if
  * (_i_) a lease of the real estate is made to,
or guaranteed by, a corporation that has
paid
(A) a dividend in each of the five years
immediately preceding the date of
investment at least equal to the speci
fied annual rate upon all of its preferred
shares, or
(B) a dividend in each year of a period
of five years ended less than one year
before the date of investment upon its
common shares of at least four per cent
of the average value at which the shares
were carried in the capital stock account
of the corporation during the year in
which the dividend was paid,
  * (_ii_) the lease provides for a net revenue
sufficient to yield a reasonable interest
return during the period of the lease and
to repay at least eighty-five per cent of
the amount invested by the company in
the real estate within the period of the
lease, but not exceeding thirty years from
the date of investment, and
  * (_iii_) the total investment of the company
in any one parcel of real estate does not
exceed one per cent of the book value of
the company s total funds ;
and the company may, notwithstanding
subsections 76(2) to (6), hold, maintain,
improve, lease, sell or otherwise deal with
or dispose of the real estate; but the total
book value of the investments of the
company in real estate for the production
of income pursuant to this paragraph shall
not exceed five per cent of the book value
of the company s total funds.
(2) The company may lend its money on
the security of
  * (_a_) any of the securities mentioned in
paragraphs (l)(o) and (6) ;
(6) the bonds, debentures, notes, stocks or
other securities of any chartered bank in
Canada or of any company incorporated
under the laws of Canada or of any province
of Canada, or of any former province now
forming part of Canada, other than those
mentioned in paragraph (l)(b), if the market
value of the securities on which the loan is
made exceeds the amount of the loan by at
least twenty per cent of such market value,
or twenty per cent of the par value,
whichever is less; but the amount loaned
on the security of the stocks of any such
company or bank shall not exceed twenty-
five per cent of the market value of the
total stocks of such company or bank; or
  * (_c_) real estate or leaseholds in Canada or
in any country in which the company is
carrying on business, but the amount of the
loan, together with the amount of indebt
edness under any mortgage or hypothec on
the real estate or leasehold ranking equally
with or superior to the loan shall not exceed
three-quarters of the value of the real estate
or leasehold, subject to the exception that
the company may accept as part payment
for real estate sold by it a mortgage or
hypothec for more than three-quarters of
the sale price of the real estate.
(3) The total book value of the investments
of the company in common shares of capital
stock shall not exceed twenty-five per cent of
the book value of the company s total funds,
but this subsection applies only to a company
that receives money on deposit or borrows
money by the issue of its bonds, debentures
or other securities.
(4) The Treasury Board may authorize the
company to purchase or invest in stocks and
securities not fulfilling the foregoing require
ments of this section
  * (_a_) for the bona fide purpose of protecting
investments previously made by the com
pany,
  * (_b_) obtained under a bona fide arrangement
for the reorganization of a company whose
stocks or securities were previously owned
by the company, or
  * (_c_) obtained through the exercise of rights
conferred by investments made prior to the
1st day of July 1922.
(5) The company may make investments
and loans not hereinbefore authorized by this
section but
  * (_a_) the total book value of the investments
and loans made under the authority of this
subsection and held by the company,
excluding those that are or at any time
since acquisition have been eligible apart
from this subsection, shall not exceed fifteen
per cent of the company s unimpaired paid-
up capital and reserve ; and
  * (_b_) this subsection does not
  * (_i_) enlarge the authority conferred by
subsections (1) and (2) to invest in
mortgages or hypothecs, to invest in real
estate or to lend on the security of real
estate or leaseholds,
  * (_ii_) affect the operation of paragraph
(l)(e) with reference to the maximum
proportion of common stocks and total
stocks of any company or bank that may
be purchased, or
  * (_iii_) affect the operation of subsection (3).
(6) Notwithstanding anything in this sec
tion, the amount of the company s investment
under the authority of this section in or upon
the security of the debentures, bonds, stock
and other securities of a company incorporated
as aforesaid shall not exceed twenty per cent
of the debentures, bonds, stock or other
securities issued by such company.
(7) The company may take personal or
other security as collateral for an advance or
for any debt due to the company.
(8) The company shall not lend any of its
funds to any of its directors, or to the wife or
any child of any of its directors.
(9) The company shall not lend any of its
funds on the security of vacant land not used
for agricultural purposes. R.S., c. 170, s. 60;
1952-53, c. 5, s. 2; 1960-61, c. 51, s. 2; 1964-65,
c. 40, s. 40.

**61.** (1) Notwithstanding anything con
tained in section 60, a loan company that,
prior to the 28th day of June 1922, held shares
of a trust company to the extent of at least
fifty per cent of the total number of shares of
such trust company outstanding at that date
may continue to hold such shares and may
purchase or otherwise acquire any additional
shares of such trust company or any or all of
the shares of a company formed by the
amalgamation of such trust company with
one or more other trust companies.
by the Treasury Board upon the
of the Superintendent, a loan company
invest its funds in the fully paid shares
of a trust company to which the Trust
Companies Act applies.
(3) No investment shall be made by a loan
company under subsection (2) if, after the
making of such investment, the aggregate cost
to the loan company of the investments made
under subsection (2) and the investments
made under section 60 in shares of such trust
companies then held by the loan company
would exceed the aggregate of the loan
company s then paid-up capital and reserve.
1960-61, c. 51, s. 3 ; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 41.

**62.** (1) The company may act as an agency
association for the interest and on behalf of
others who entrust it with money for that
purpose, and may, either in the name of the
company or of such others, lend and advance
money to any person, upon such securities as
are mentioned in section 60, and may purchase
and acquire any securities on which it is
authorized to advance money and resell the
same.
(2) The conditions and terms of such loans
and advances and of such purchases and
resales may be enforced by the company for
its benefit and for the benefit of the person
for whom such money has been lent and
advanced, or such purchase and resale made;
and the company has the same power in
respect of such loans, advances, purchases and
sales as are conferred upon it in respect of
loans, advances, purchases and sales made
from its own capital.
(3) The company may guarantee the repay
ment of the principal, or the payment of the
interest, or both, of any moneys entrusted to
the company for investment.
(4) The company may liquidate and carry
Qn foj. thg purpoges of guch liquidation the
business of any other company carrying on
any business which the company is authorized
to carry on, upon such terms as may be agreed
upon. R.S., c. 170, s. 62.
Use of Funds

**63.** The company shall not
  * (_a_) lend or advance money upon the
security of its own stock ;
(6) invest in or lend money upon the
security of the stock of any other loan
company ;
  * (_c_) lend upon the security of or purchase or
invest in bills of exchange or promissory
notes. R.S., c. 170, s. 63.
Borrowing Powers

**64.** (1) The company may borrow money
and may issue its bonds, debentures or other
securities for moneys borrowed.
(2) Bonds and debentures so issued may be
made payable to order or to bearer or to
registered holder or otherwise as the company
deems advisable. R.S., c. 170, s. 64.

**65.** (1) The company may receive money
on deposit upon such terms as to interest,
security, time and mode of repayment and
otherwise as may be agreed upon, but the
amount held on deposit shall not at any time,
except as authorized by subsection (2), exceed
the aggregate amount of its then actually
paid-up and unimpaired capital stock and of
its cash actually in hand or deposited in any
chartered bank in Canada.
(2) The company may, by by-law passed by
the directors and approved by at least a three-
fourths vote of the shareholders present or
represented by proxy at the annual or other
general meeting of the company duly called
for the purpose of considering the by-law,
increase the amount that may be received on
deposit under subsection (1) to such an amount
as the said by-law may provide, subject to the
provisions of section 68 and to the following
conditions :
  * (_a_) a notice of the by-law and of the
meeting of the shareholders called to
approve the by-law shall be sent and given
by registered mail to every registered
debenture holder who holds a debenture
issued by the company before the 1st day
of July 1948 and who is resident outside
Canada, or to the chief agent or chief
agents of the company for the sale of
debentures of the company outside Canada
at least thirty days before the date for
which the meeting is called ;
(6) a notice of the by-law and of the
meeting shall be published in four consecu
tive issues of the Canada Gazette, the first
of such issues to be that issued at least
thirty days before the date for which the
meeting is called ;
  * (_c_) the said by-law shall provide that any
debenture holder who holds a debenture
issued by the company before the 1st day
of July 1948 and who, within sixty days
after the approval of the by-law by the
shareholders, notifies the company in
writing that he objects to the said by-law
and makes application for the redemption
of any such debenture of the company held
by him, is entitled to have such debenture
redeemed according to its terms on the first
interest date following the receipt by the
company of the said notice, and the
company shall on that interest date redeem
the debenture ;
  * (_d_) paragraphs (a), (6) and (c) apply only so
long as there remains outstanding any
debenture of the company issued prior to
the 1st day of July 1948.
(3) All deposits of money received by the
company under this section on and after the
1st day of January 1923 shall be, and be
deemed to have been, received on the
condition that the company has the right to
require at least thirty days notice for the
withdrawal of the amount so deposited or any
portion thereof.
(4) The company shall at all times maintain
  * (_a_) cash on deposit in chartered banks in
Canada or in joint stock banks of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland,
  * (_b_) securities of or guaranteed by the
Government of Canada, or of or guaranteed
by the government of a province, or of or
guaranteed by the Government of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, or of a
municipal or school corporation in Canada,
  * (_c_) loans payable on demand and fully
secured by such securities, or
  * (_d_) a credit from chartered banks in Canada
or from joint stock banks of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, subject to conditions
approved by the Superintendent,
to an aggregate amount of at least twenty per
cent of the amount of money deposited with
the company. R.S., c. 170, s. 65.

**66.** All moneys of which the repayment of
the principal or payment of interest is
guaranteed by the company shall be deemed
to be money borrowed by the company. R.S.,
c. 170, s. 66.

**67.** (1) The directors of the company may,
with the consent of the shareholders at a
special general meeting duly called for the
purpose, create and issue debenture stock in
sterling or currency, in such amounts and
manner, on such terms and bearing such rate
of interest as the directors from time to time
think proper.
(2) Debenture stock shall be treated and
considered as part of the ordinary debenture
debt of the company.
(3) Debenture stock shall rank equally with
the ordinary debenture and deposit debt of
the company, and no greater rights or
privileges shall be conferred upon holders of
debenture stock in respect thereof than are
held or enjoyed by depositors or holders of
ordinary debentures of the company.
(4) Debenture stock is transferable in such
amounts and in such manner as the directors
determine.
(5) Holders of ordinary debentures of the
company may, with the consent of the
directors, at any time exchange such deben
tures for debenture stock.
(5) The company having issued debenture
stock may from time to time as it thinks fit
in the interest of the company, but only with
the consent of the holders thereof, buy up
and cancel the debenture stock or any portion
thereof.
(7) All transfers of debenture stock of the
shall be registered at the head office
the company and not elsewhere, but the
transfers may be left with such agent or agents
in Great Britain or elsewhere as the company
appoints for that purpose, for transmission to
the company s head office for registration.
R.S., c. 170, s. 67.
Liabilities to the Public

**68.** (1) The aggregate of the sums of money
borrowed by the company shall not at any
time, except as authorized by subsection (2),
exceed four times the excess of the assets of
the company over its liabilities.
(2) The company may, by by-law passed by
the directors and approved by at least a three-
fourths vote of the shareholders present or
represented by proxy at an annual or other
general meeting of the company duly called
for the purpose of considering the by-law,
increase the limit of the amount that may be
borrowed by the company as set forth in
subsection (1) to such amount as the said by
law may provide, subject to the following
conditions :
  * (_a_) the power conferred by the said by-law
shall not be exercised by the company
unless the by-law is approved by the
Treasury Board on the recommendation of
the Superintendent ; and
  * (_b_) the said by-law shall not increase the
limit of the amount of money that may be
borrowed by the company beyond, in the
aggregate, fifteen times the excess of the
assets of the company over its liabilities.
(3) Where a loan company owns more than
ten per cent of the shares of the capital stock
of a trust company or where more than ten
per cent of the shares of the capital stock of
a loan company are owned by a trust company
to which the Trust Companies Act applies, the
loan company shall not borrow any money
when the aggregate of the money borrowed
by the loan company, the money borrowed
by the trust company and the money accepted
by the trust company in trust for investment,
the repayment of which is guaranteed by the
trust company, exceeds, or when the borrowing
would cause that aggregate to exceed, the
amount that the loan company would be
to borrow pursuant to subsection
(1) or (2) if
  * (_a_) the assets of the loan company were
equal to the aggregate of the assets of the
loan company (excluding therefrom shares
of the capital stock of the trust company)
and the assets of the trust company
(excluding therefrom shares of the capital
stock of the loan company) ; and
(6) the liabilities of the loan company were
equal to the aggregate of the liabilities of
the loan company and the liabilities of the
trust company. 1958, c. 35, s. 10; 1964-65, c.
40, s. 42.
Licence

**69.** (1) No company to which this Act in
whole or in part applies, or person acting on
its behalf, shall transact the business of a loan
company unless the company has obtained
from the Minister a licence authorizing it to
do so.
(2) The Minister may issue to any such
company that has complied with this Act and
is, in the opinion of the Minister, in such a
financial position as to justify its transaction
of the business of a loan company, a licence
authorizing the transaction of the said
business.
(3) The licence shall be in such form as
may be from time to time determined by the
Minister and may contain any limitations or
conditions that the Minister may consistently
with the provisions of the Act deem proper.
(4) The licence expires on the 31st day of
March in each year, but may be renewed from
year to year subject, however, to any
qualification or limitation that is considered
expedient, and such licence may be from time
to time renewed for any term less than a year.
(5) The Minister shall cause to be published
in the Canada Gazette a list of all companies
to which licences have been issued as aforesaid
in the first issue in the month of April in each
year.
  * (_g_) Where any company makes application
to the Minister for the issue of a licence under
section or for the renewal of such licence
the application is refused by the Minister,
company has the right of appeal to the
in Council against the decision of
the Minister, and the Governor in Council,
such hearing given to the company as it
deems necessary or desirable, shall render a
decision on the appeal, which decision is final.
R.S., c. 170, s. 69.
Annual Statement

**70.** (1) The company shall, on or before
the 1st day of March in each year, prepare
and deposit in the Department a statement
of the condition and affairs of the company
as of the next preceding 31st day of December,
showing the assets and liabilities of the
company on the said 31st day of December
and its income and expenditures during the
year then ended, together with such other
information as the Minister may require.
(2) The statement required by subsection
(1) shall be in such form as the Minister
determines and shall be verified by oath of
the president or a vice-president elected under
subsection 21(1) and of the manager or
secretary of the company. 1958, c. 35, s. 11.

**71.** (1) In this section
amortized value", when used in relation to
the value of a redeemable security at any
date after purchase, means a value so
determined that if the security were pur
chased at that date and at that value, the
yield would be the same as the yield with
reference to the original purchase price ;
annual statement" means the statement
required under section 70 to be deposited in
the Department;
market value" means the market value at
the date of the annual statement or, in the
discretion of the Superintendent, at a date
not more than sixty days before the date of
that statement;
redeemable security" means a security being
for a fixed term and redeemable at the end
of that term at a specified value ;
yield", when used in relation to a redeemable
security, means the effective rate of interest
that will be returned on the purchase price
if the payments of interest specified in the
security are made up to and including the
redemption date and the security is then
redeemed at the specified value; and, in
the case of a security that is redeemable at
more than one specified date, "redemption
date" means, for the purposes of this
section, the specified date that gives the
lower or the lowest effective rate of interest,
as the case may be.
(2) For the purposes of the definitions
"amortized value" and "yield" in subsection
(1),
  * (_a_) where a redeemable security is acquired
otherwise than by purchase, it shall be
deemed to have been purchased at a price
not exceeding the market value at the date
of acquisition ; and
(6) where the option to redeem a security is
not exercised at the redemption date used
to determine the yield, then, with respect
to the remainder of the term, the security
shall be deemed to have been purchased at
that date at a price equal to the then
amortized value.
(3) The securities owned by a company
shall be taken into account in every annual
statement at values that, in total, do not
exceed the aggregate of
  * (_a_) the amortized values of redeemable
securities not in default, issued or guaran
teed by the Government of Canada, or by
the government of a province, and
(6) the market values of all securities other
than those described in paragraph (a).
(4) Every annual statement required by
this Act to be deposited in the Department
shall show in a schedule the market values of
all securities owned by the company at the
date of the statement. 1958, c. 35, s. 12.
Inspection

**72.** (1) The Superintendent shall visit per
sonally, or cause a duly qualified member of
his slaff lo visil, al leasl once in each year,
Ihe head office of each company and examine
carefully Ihe slatements of the condition and
affairs of each company, and report thereon
to the Minister as lo all matters requiring his
atlenlion and decision.
(2) For Ihe purpose of an examinalion
under subseclion (1) Ihe company shall prepare
submit to the Superintendent such
or statements with respect to the
finances or other affairs of the
company, in addition to that mentioned in
section 70, as the Superintendent may require,
and the officers, agents and servants of the
company shall cause their books to be open
for inspection, and shall otherwise facilitate
such examination so far as it is in their power.
(3) The company shall on the request of
the Superintendent file with the Superintend
ent a certified copy of its by-laws, and notice
of every repeal, or addition to, or amendment
of, its by-laws shall be filed by the company
with the Superintendent within one month
after the date of such repeal, addition or
amendment.
(4) The Superintendent may examine under
oath the officers, agents or servants of the
company for the purpose of obtaining any
information that he deems necessary for the
purpose of such, examination.
(5) The Superintendent shall also prepare
for the Minister from the said statements, an
annual report, showing the full particulars of
each company s business. U.S., c. 170, s. 71 ;
1958, c. 35, s. 13.

**73.** (1) Where as the result of the exami
nation as aforesaid of any company the
Superintendent believes that the assets of the
company are insufficient to justify its con
tinuance in business, he shall make a special
report to the Minister on the condition of
such company.
(2) Where the Minister, after a reasonable
time has been given to the company to be
heard by him, and upon such further inquiry
and investigation as he sees fit to make,
reports to the Governor in Council that he
agrees with the opinion of the Superintendent,
the Governor in Council may, if he also
concurs in such opinion, suspend or cancel the
licence of the company, and the company
shall thereupon cease to transact further
business.
(3) The Minister may, during such suspen
sion or cancellation, issue such conditional
licence as he may deem to be necessary for
the protection of the public.
(4) Where the Minister deems it advisable,
the conditional licence may provide that the
shall, during the continuance of
conditional licence, arrange for the sale
its assets and for the transfer of its liabilities
to some other company under sections 86 to
(5) Where upon the expiration of the
conditional licence no arrangement satisfac
tory to the Minister has been made for such
sale and transfer, and the company s condition
is not then such as to warrant the restoration
of the company s licence, the company shall
be deemed to be insolvent. R.S., c. 170, s. 72.

**74.** (i) j n h^ annual report prepared for
^ e Minister under section 72, the Superin-
tendent shall allow as assets only such of the
investments of the several companies as are
authorized by this Act, except that in respect
of investments made on or before the 31st day
of December 1947 the Superintendent shall
allow as assets such of the said investments as
are authorized by this Act or as were
authorized by the Acts of incorporation of the
companies or by other general Acts in force
before that date and applicable to such
investments.
(2) In his annual report the Superintendent
shall make all necessary corrections in the
annual statements made by the companies as
herein provided and shall be at liberty to
increase or diminish the assets or liabilities of
such companies to the true and correct
amounts thereof as ascertained by him in the
examination of their affairs at the head office
thereof, or otherwise.
(3) The Superintendent may request any
company to dispose of and realize any of its
investments acquired after the 31st day of
December 1947 and not authorized by this
Act, and the company shall within sixty days
after receiving such request absolutely dispose
of and realize those investments, and if the
amount realized therefrom falls below the
amount paid by the company for the said
investments the directors of the company are
jointly and severally liable for the payment
to the company of the amount of the
deficiency.
(4) If any director present when any such
investment is authorized does forthwith, or if
any director then absent does, within twenty-
hours after he becomes aware of such
investment and is able to do so, enter on the
of the board of directors his protest
against the investment, and within eight days
thereafter gives notice of his protest by
registered letter to the Superintendent, such
director may thereby, and not otherwise,
exonerate himself from such liability.
(5) An appeal lies in a summary manner
from the ruling of the Superintendent as to
the admissibility of any asset not allowed by
him, or as to any item or amount so added to
liabilities, or as to any correction or alteration
made in any statement, or as to any other
matter arising in the carrying out of this Act,
to the Exchequer Court of Canada, and that
Court has power to make all necessary rules
for the conduct of appeals under this section.
  * (_g_) For the purposes of such appeal the
Superintendent shall at the request of the
company interested give a certificate in
writing setting forth the ruling appealed from
and the reasons therefor, which ruling is,
however, binding upon the company unless
the company within fifteen days after notice
of such ruling serves upon the Superintendent
notice of its intention to appeal therefrom,
setting forth the grounds of appeal, and
within fifteen days thereafter files its appeal
with the registrar of the Court and with due
diligence prosecutes the appeal, in which case
action on the ruling shall be suspended until
the Court has rendered judgment thereon.
R.S., c. 170, s. 73.

**75.** (1) Where upon an examination of the
assets of any company it appears to the
Superintendent, or if he has any reason to
suppose, that the value placed by the company
upon the real estate owned by it or any parcel
thereof is too great, he may either require
such company to procure an appraisal of such
real estate by one or more competent valuators,
or may himself procure such appraisal at the
company s expense, and the appraised value,
if it varies materially from the return made
by the company, may be substituted in the
annual report prepared for the Minister by
appears to the Superintendent, or where he
has any reason to suppose that the amount
secured by mortgage or hypothec upon any
parcel of real estate, together with the interest
due and accrued thereon, is greater than the
value of such parcel, or that the parcel is not
sufficient security for the loan and interest,
he may in like manner require the company
to procure an appraisal thereof, or may
himself at the company s expense procure
such appraisal, and where from the appraised
value it appears that such parcel of real estate
is not adequate security for the loan and
interest, he may write off the loan and interest
a sum sufficient to reduce the same to such
an amount as may fairly be realizable from
such security, in no case to exceed such
appraised value, and may insert such reduced
amount in his annual report. R.S., c. 170, s.

**74.**
Real Estate

**76.** (1) The company may acquire and
hold absolutely for its own use and benefit
such real and immovable property in Canada
as is necessary for its actual use and occupation
and the management of its business, and not
more than thirty-five per cent of the compa
ny s unimpaired paid-up capital and reserve
may be laid out or expended for this purpose.
(2) The company may also hold real estate
that having been mortgaged or hypothecated
to it is acquired by it for the protection of its
investments, and may from time to time sell,
mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose thereof.
(3) N O parcel of land or interest therein at
any time acquired by the company and not
  * (_a_) required for its actual use and occupa
tion,
(6) held by way of security, or
  * (_c_) acquired and held as an investment
pursuant to section 60,
shall be held by the company or by any
trustee on its behalf for a longer period than
seven years after the acquisition thereof, but
shall be sold so that the company no longer
retains an interest therein unless by way of
security.
(4) Any parcel of land or interest therein at
time acquired by the company and not
  * (_a_) required for its actual use and occupa
tion,
(6) held by way of security, or
  * (_c_) acquired and held as an investment
pursuant to section 60,
that has been held by the company for a
longer period than seven years without being
disposed of shall be forfeited to Her Majesty
for the use of Canada.
(5) The Governor in Council may extend
the said period from time to time, not
exceeding in the whole twelve years.
(6) No such forfeiture shall take effect or
be enforced until the expiration of at least six
calendar months after notice is given in
writing to the company of the intention of
Her Majesty to claim such forfeiture. R.S., c.
170, ss. 75, 76; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 43.
Change of Head Office

**77.** (1) The company may by by-law
change the locality of its head office in
Canada to any other place in Canada.
(2) No by-law under subsection (1) has any
force or effect until after it has been
unanimously sanctioned by a vote of the
shareholders present in person or represented
by proxy at a general meeting of the company
duly called for considering the by-law and
representing two-thirds of the stock of the
company or until it is unanimously sanctioned
in writing by the shareholders of the company.
(3) Where the by-law is sanctioned in
writing by not less than three-fourths in value
of the shareholders of the company, the
company may, through the Minister, petition
the Governor in Council for an order
approving the by-law, and the Governor in
(4) No such by-law shall be acted upon
until two months after a copy of the by-law
has been published by the company, once in
the Canada Gazette and once in a newspaper
published in the city, town or village in or
nearest to which the head office of the
company is then already situated, and in
which a newspaper is published. R.S., c. 170,
s. 77.
Contracts, etc.

**78.** (1) Every contract, agreement, engage-
ment or i bargain made . and i every i bill -11 of /.
exchange drawn, accepted or endorsed, and
every promissory note and cheque made,
drawn or endorsed on behalf of the company,
by any agent, officer or servant of the
company, in general accordance with his
powers as such, is binding upon the company.
(2) I n no case is it necessary to have the
seal of the company affixed to any such
contract, agreement, engagement, bargain,
bill of exchange, promissory note or cheque,
or to prove that the same was made, drawn,
accepted or endorsed, as the case may be, in
pursuance of any by-law or special vote or
order.
(3) The person so acting as agent, officer or
servant of the company, is not thereby
subjected individually to any liability to any
third person therefor. R.S., c. 170, s. 78.
Trusts

**79.** (1) The company is not bound to see
to the execution of any trust, whether express,
implied or constructive, to which any share of
its stock or debentures or debenture stock or
any deposit or any other moneys payable by
or in the hands of the company may be
subject.
(2) The receipt of the parties in whose name
such shares, debentures, debenture stock,
deposit, or moneys stand in the books of the
company, is a valid and binding discharge to
the company for any payment of any kind to
which they may then be subject in respect of
such shares, debentures, debenture stock,
deposits or moneys, notwithstanding any trust
and whether or not notice of such trust has
been given to the company.
(3) The company is not bound to see to the
of the money paid upon such
R.S., c. 170, s. 79.
Evidence

**80.** (1) A copy of any by-law of the
company, under its seal, and purporting to be
signed by any officer of the company, shall
be received in evidence as prima facie proof
of such by-law in all courts in Canada.
(2) All books required by this Act to be kept
by the secretary or by any other officer of the
company charged with that duty are, in any
suit or proceeding against the company or
against any shareholder, evidence of all facts
purporting to be therein stated.
(3) In any action by any company to
enforce payment of any call or interest
thereon, a certificate under the seal of the
company and purporting to be signed by an
officer of the company to the effect that the
defendant is a shareholder, that the call or
calls have been made, to enforce payment of
which or of any interest thereon such action
has been brought, and that so much is due by
him and unpaid thereon, shall be received in
evidence in all courts as prima facie proof of
the matters therein stated. R.S., c. 170, s. 80.
Reserve Fund

**81.** (1) The directors may set aside out of
premiums on stock and out of the profits of
the company such sums as they think proper
as a reserve fund, in this Act referred to as
reserve.
(2) The reserve, until distribution in divi
dends or other lawful application thereof is
made, shall be kept invested in the securities
and be subject to the limitations mentioned
in section 60. R.S., c. 170, s. 81.
Pension Funds

**82.** (1) Every loan company is hereby
declared to have possessed, since the date of
its incorporation, in addition to any other
possessed by it, the power to provide,
either by itself or jointly in association with
trust company, by whatever authority
incorporated, for the creation of a staff
pension and insurance fund, by by-law of the
directors submitted to and approved at an
annual general meeting of the company or at
a special general meeting thereof, notice of
the intention to consider such by-law having
been in either case given in the same manner
and at the same time as notice of such
meeting.
(2) Notwithstanding section 3, the provi
sions of subsection (1) apply to every loan
company, whenever incorporated, whose incor
poration is subject to the legislative jurisdic
tion of the Parliament of Canada. R.S., c.
170, s. 82.
Liability of Directors

**83.** Where the directors of the company
declare and pay any dividend that impairs or
diminishes the paid-up capital of the compa
ny, the directors who knowingly or negligently
concur in the declaration or making payable
of such dividend whereby the paid-up capital
of the company is impaired or diminished are
jointly and severally liable for the amount of
such dividend as a debt due by them to the
company. R.S., c. 170, s. 83.

**84.** Whenever entry is made in the compa
ny s books of any transfer of stock not fully
paid up, to a person who is not apparently of
sufficient means to fully pay up such shares,
the directors present who consent to the
transfer, and every director present who does
not record his vote in opposition thereto, are
jointly and severally liable to the company
in the same manner and to the same extent
as the transferring shareholder but for such
entry would have been liable. R.S., c. 170, s.

**84.**
g5. (1) The directors of the company are
. ^ &nd geverally Uable to the clerkg and
directors respectively.
(2) No director is liable to an action therefor
unless the company is sued therefor within
one year after the debt became due, nor unless
such director is sued therefor within one year
from the time when he ceased to be such
director, nor unless an execution against the
company at the suit of such clerk or servant
is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
(3) The amount unsatisfied on such execu
tion shall be the amount recoverable with
costs from all directors. R.S., c. 170, s. 85.
Purchase and Sale

**86.** (1) The company may purchase the
whole or any part of the business, assets,
rights, credits, effects and property belonging
to any other company and may assume and
undertake to pay in connection with such
purchase the whole or any part of the
liabilities of such other company, if such other
company is a loan company within the
meaning of this Act.
(2) The consideration for the business and
property so purchased may be cash or shares
in the company s stock, either fully paid up
or partly paid, or in part cash and in part
shares, either fully paid up or partly paid, or
such other consideration as may be agreed
upon.
(3) The respective companies may enter
into an agreement for such purchase and sale
and do all other acts not inconsistent herewith
to carry the same into effect.
(4) The agreement shall first be submitted
to the shareholders of each of the said
companies at a meeting thereof duly called
and held separately for the purpose of taking
the agreement into consideration, and if at
each such meeting the agreement is accepted
and approved by resolution passed by at least
a three-fourths vote of such shares as are
represented in person or by proxy and
representing at least fifty per cent of the
capital stock of the company, the
may be executed under the
seal of the companies.
(5) N O such agreement becomes operative
and effective until it has been submitted to
and approved by the Treasury Board, and
unless it appears that the approval of such
agreement would not be in the public interest,
the Treasury Board may grant its approval
and issue a certificate confirming the agree
ment.
(6) Any rights so purchased by the company
that are inconsistent with this Act cease to
have effect.
(7) Where a company acquires the whole of
the business, rights and property of another
loan company under the authority of this
section, the company may, notwithstanding
section 12, by by-law duly passed by the
directors increase the number of directors to
any number not exceeding the aggregate of
the number of directors of both companies at
the time of the acquisition, subject to the
condition that as vacancies occur between
annual meetings of the company by reason of
disqualification, resignation or death, no such
vacancy shall be filled and the maximum
number of directors shall be reduced accord
ingly until the number remaining in office is
no greater than the number permitted by
section 12. R.S., c. 170, s. 86; 1960-61, c. 51, s.

**4.**

**87.** (1) On and after the date of the
certificate issued under section 86, the assets
purchased and sold, in accordance with and
subject to the terms of the agreement
mentioned in section 86 and without any
further conveyance, become vested in the
purchasing company.
(2) The selling company shall, subject to
the terms of said agreement, execute such
formal and separate conveyances, assignments
and assurances for registration purposes or
otherwise as may reasonably be required to
confirm or evidence the vesting in the
purchasing company of the full title and
ownership of the assets purchased and sold.
R.S., c. 170, s. 87.

**88.** In case any company whose assets are
by the company has issued debenture
and such debenture stock is outstanding
at the date of the acquisition aforesaid, the
directors of the company may, if and when
they think fit, and either with or without the
sanction of the shareholders, issue debenture
stock to the extent of the nominal value of
the debenture stock of such other company
outstanding as aforesaid, and may, with the
consent of any holder of debenture stock in
such other company, give to him, in lieu of
the debenture stock held by him, debenture
stock of the company on such terms as may
be agreed upon. R.S., c. 170, s. 88.

**89.** (1) The company may sell and dispose
of the whole or any part of the business,
rights, credits, effects and property of the
company for such consideration as the
company may think fit.
(2) No such sale or disposal shall be made
until it is approved at a meeting of
shareholders duly called for that purpose, at
which meeting two-thirds in value of the
issued shares are represented by shareholders
in person or by proxy.
(3) NO such sale or disposal takes effect
until it has been submitted to and approved
of by the Treasury Board.
(4) i n an y sa l e under the authority of this
section of the whole of the business, rights
and property of the company to any loan
company incorporated under the laws of
Canada, or of a province, the consideration
for such sale may, notwithstanding anything
in this Act, be fully-paid shares in the capital
stock of the purchasing company or in part
cash and in part shares of such purchasing
company or such other consideration as may
be agreed upon. R.S., c. 170, s. 89.

**90.** (1) Without limiting the powers the
company has under section 86, the company
may, for the purpose of purchasing the whole
or any part of the business, assets, rights,
credits, effects and property belonging to any
other company pursuant to section 86,
purchase not less than sixty-seven per cent of
the outstanding shares of any other loan
authorized by the Treasury Board ;
(6) the Treasury Board may authorize such
purchase on the report of the Superintend
ent, supported by evidence that
  * (_i_) an offer to purchase has been made to
all the shareholders of such other loan
company and has been accepted by the
holders of at least sixty-seven per cent of
the outstanding shares thereof, such
evidence of acceptance being in the form
of written agreements or in the form of a
resolution signed by or on behalf of the
shareholders voting therefor, in person or
by proxy, at a meeting of the shareholders
duly called to consider the offer, or being
partly in one form and partly in the
other, and
  * (_ii_) the purchase has been approved by
at least a three-fourths vote of such shares
as are represented in person or by proxy
at a meeting of the shareholders duly
called to consider the purchase and
representing at least fifty per cent of the
issued capital stock of the purchasing
company ;
  * (_c_) the power to purchase shares under this
subsection is in addition to the powers set
forth in section 60, and the limitations and
provisoes contained in that section and in
section 63 do not apply to any such purchase
of shares ;
  * (_d_) where a company has purchased shares
under this subsection, the company shall,
under section 86, complete the purchase of
the whole or any part, as the case may be,
of the business, assets, rights, credits, effects
and property and assume and undertake to
pay in connection with such purchase the
whole or any part of the liabilities of the
other loan company, within a period of two
years after the purchase of shares has been
authorized by the Treasury Board, but on
being satisfied that the circumstances so
warrant, the Treasury Board may extend
that period from time to time ; and after
the expiration of that period and of any
extension thereof, the said shares shall not
the Superintendent may direct the company
to sell or otherwise absolutely dispose of
the shares.
(2) The consideration for the shares so
purchased may be cash or shares in the
purchasing company s stock or in part cash
and in part shares of the purchasing company
or such other consideration as may be agreed
upon.
(3) Nothing in this Act shall be construed
as authorizing a company to purchase or
acquire its own shares. R.S., c. 170, s. 90 ; 1960-
61, c. 51, s. 5.
Amalgamation

**91.** (1) A company may, with the permis
sion of the Minister, amalgamate with one or
more other loan companies that are subject to
this Act for the purpose of enabling them to
continue as one company (hereinafter referred
to as the "amalgamated company") under the
name of one of the amalgamating companies
or under a new name.
(2) The companies proposing to amalgam
ate shall enter into an agreement (hereinafter
called an "amalgamation agreement") pre
scribing
  * (_a_) the terms and conditions of the amal
gamation;
(6) the name of the amalgamated company ;
  * (_c_) the number of directors of the amal
gamated company, which number may,
notwithstanding section 12, be any number
not exceeding the aggregate number of
directors of the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement immedi
ately prior to the amalgamation, subject to
the condition that as vacancies occur
between annual meetings of the amal
gamated company by reason of disqualifi
cation, resignation or death, no such vacancy
shall be filled and the maximum number of
directors shall be reduced accordingly until
the number remaining in office is no greater
than the number permitted by section 12 ;
  * (_d_) the names, callings and places of
residence of the first directors and officers
of the amalgamated company who shall
hold office until the first annual meeting
thereof ;
  * (_e_) the capital stock of the amalgamated
company, the number of shares into which
that stock is to be divided, and the par
value thereof;
(/) the manner and terms of issuing shares
of the amalgamated company to the
shareholders of the companies that are
parties to the amalgamation agreement;
and
  * (_g_) such other matters as may be necessary
to perfect the amalgamation and to provide
for the subsequent management and work
ing of the amalgamated company.
(3) The directors of each company that is
party to the amalgamation agreement shall
cause
  * (_a_) the amalgamation agreement to be
submitted to the shareholders of the
company for consideration at a meeting
duly called for the purpose ;
(6) notice of the time and place of the
meeting, together with a copy of the
amalgamation agreement, to be sent to each
of the shareholders of the company at least
six weeks before the date of the meeting by
registered mail addressed to the latest
known address of each shareholder as
recorded in the books of the company ;
  * (_c_) notice of the time and place of the
meeting to be given in a newspaper,
published at the place where the head office
of the company is situated, at least once a
week for six successive weeks prior to the
date of the meeting ; and
  * (_d_) a copy of the notice that is sent to the
shareholders of the company and a copy of
the amalgamation agreement to be deliv
ered to the Superintendent at least four
weeks before the date of the meeting.
(4) If, at the meeting of the shareholders of
each company that is party to the amalgama
tion agreement, the amalgamation agreement
is approved by resolution passed by the
affirmative votes of at least three-fourths of
  * (_a_) that approval shall be certified upon
the amalgamation agreement by the secre
tary of the company under the seal of the
company; and
(6) two copies of the amalgamation agree
ment certified as aforesaid by the secretary
of each company shall be filed with the
Superintendent.
(5) An amalgamation agreement has no
force or effect until it has been approved by
the Governor in Council in accordance with
subsection (6).
(6) The Governor in Council shall not
approve the amalgamation agreement unless
  * (_a_) the Treasury Board, on the report of
the Superintendent, recommends that the
amalgamation agreement be approved ;
  * (_b_) he is satisfied that the shareholders of
each company that is a party to the
amalgamation agreement have approved it
in accordance with subsection (4);
  * (_c_) the amalgamation agreement is submit-
ted to the Governor in Council for approval
within six months from the date of its
execution; and
  * (_d_) notice of the intention of the companies
that are parties to the amalgamation
agreement to submit the amalgamation
agreement to the Governor in Council for
approval has been published for at least
four weeks in the Canada Gazette and in
one or more newspapers published at the
place where the head office of each company
is situated.
(7) The approval by the Governor in
Council of the amalgamation agreement
amalgamates the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement and creates
them one body politic and corporate and they
shall continue thereafter as one company
under the name specified in the amalgamation
agreement.
(8) The amalgamated company owns and
possesses all the property, rights and interests
and is subject to all the duties, liabilities and
obligations of each company that is party to
the amalgamation agreement and all of the
shareholders of the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement immediately
before the amalgamation are shareholders of
the amalgamated company.
(9) When approved by the Governor in
Council, the amalgamation agreement has
the force of law and the amalgamated
company shall be deemed to be a loan
company incorporated by special Act of the
Parliament of Canada.
(10) Subject to the amalgamation agree
ment, the amalgamated company has all the
powers, privileges and immunities conferred
by, and is subject to all the limitations,
liabilities and provisions of this Act.
(11) The approval of the Governor in
Council of an amalgamation agreement shall
be evidenced by an order of the Governor in
Council and a copy of the order purporting
to have annexed thereto a true copy of the
amalgamation agreement, certified by the
Clerk or the Assistant Clerk of the Privy
Council for Canada, is in all courts and for
all purposes, evidence of the amalgamation
agreement, of the due execution thereof, of
its approval by the Governor in Council and
of the regularity of all proceedings in
connection therewith. 1960-61, c. 51, s. 6.
Penalties

**92.** Any director who authorizes payment
of or any manager or any other officer or
servant of the company who pays or causes to
be paid any money for or on account of the
incorporation or organization expenses of the
company after the certificate permitting the
company to commence business has been
obtained from the Minister, except and unless
the liability so paid has been disclosed to the
Minister at the time of the application for
such certificate, is guilty of an indictable
offence and liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years. R.S., c. 170, s. 91.

**93.** Every director, officer and servant of
the company who refuses or wilfully neglects
to make any proper entry in the books of the
company is guilty of an indictable offence
and liable to imprisonment for any term not
exceeding two years. R.S., c. 170, s. 92.

**94.** The making of any wilfully false or
deceptive statement in any account, state-
return, report or other document
the affairs of the company, or the
using of any false or deceptive statement in
any account, statement, return, report or other
document respecting the affairs of the com
pany with intent to deceive or mislead any
person, is an indictable offence punishable,
unless a greater punishment is in any case by
law prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years. R.S., c. 170
s. 93.

**95.** Every director, auditor, manager or
,i e .,
other officer of the company, and every
auditor and inspector who negligently
prepares, signs, approves or concurs in any
account, statement, return, report or document
respecting the affairs of the company con
taining any false or deceptive statement, is
guilty of an indictable offence punishable,
unless a greater punishment is in any case by
law prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding three years. R.S., c. 170,
s. 94.

**96.** Every director, officer and servant of
the company, who, on the application of any
shareholder or creditor of the company or of
the personal representatives of any such
shareholder or creditor or of any judgment
creditor of a shareholder, refuses or neglects
to produce any of the books mentioned in
subsection 42(1) within his power or control,
or who refuses or neglects to allow any of
such books to be inspected and extracts to be
taken therefrom, during reasonable business
hours of any business day of the company, is
guilty of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars. R.S., c. 170, s. 95.

**97.** Every director, officer and servant of
the company who refuses to produce for
examination to the Superintendent or any
member of his staff duly authorized by him
to examine the statement of the condition
and affairs of the company, all books and
documents in his custody or control, is guilty
of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a penalty not exceeding fifty
dollars and costs. R.S., c. 170, s. 96.

**98.** Every company that makes default in
depositing in the Department the annual
herein required to be deposited
shall incur a penalty of ten dollars for each
day during which such default continues.
1958, c. 35, s. 14.

**99.** (1) Any company or person that does,
causes or permits to be done any matter, act
or thing contrary to this Act, or to the orders
or directions of the Governor in Council or of
the Minister, or of the Superintendent, made
under this Act, or omits to do any matter, act
or thing required by this Act to be done by or
on the part of such company or person, is, if
no other penalty for such act or omission is
provided in this Act, liable for each such
offence to a penalty of not less than twenty
dollars and not more than five thousand
dollars in the discretion of the court before
which such penalty is recoverable.
(2) Such company or person is also, in
addition to such penalty, liable to any person
injured by such matter, act or thing, or by
such omission, for all damages sustained
thereby. R.S., c. 170, s. 98.

**100.** (1) The amount of the penalties
imposed upon a company or person for any
violation of this Act is, unless otherwise
provided by this Act, recoverable and enforce
able with costs at the suit of Her Majesty
instituted by the Attorney General of Canada
or by the Minister.
(2) Such penalties, unless otherwise provid
ed by this Act, belong to the Crown for the
public uses of Canada, but the Governor in
Council, on the report of the Treasury Board,
may direct that any portion of any penalty
be remitted. R.S., c. 170, s. 99.

## PART II

## BRITISH LOAN COMPANIES
Interpretation

**101.** In this Part "company" means any
institution or corporation duly incorporated
Licence

**102.** (1) The Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs may, if he sees fit, issue a
licence under this Part to any company that
applies for such licence and complies with the
provisions of this Part in that behalf,
authorizing it to carry on business in Canada.
(2) Any company so applying, shall furnish
the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs with a certified copy of the charter,
Act of incorporation or articles of association
of the company as evidence of the due
incorporation of the company and with a
power of attorney from the company to the
person appointed as the principal agent or
manager of the company within Canada,
expressly authorizing such agent or manager
to apply for the licence.
(3) The power of attorney shall be under
the seal of the company and shall be signed
by the president or managing director and
secretary thereof and verified by the oath of
an attesting witness. R.S., c. 170, ss. 101, 102;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 45; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 13.
Preliminaries

**103.** Every company that obtains a licence
under this Part shall, before commencing
business, file in the office of the provincial
secretary of each province in which the
company proposes to do business, a certified
copy of the charter, Act of incorporation or
articles of association of the company, and
also a power of attorney to the agent or
manager of the company in each such
province, signed by the president or managing
director and secretary thereof, and verified as
to its authenticity by the oath of the principal
agent or manager of the company in Canada,
or by the -oath of a person cognizant of the
facts necessary for its verification. R.S., c. 170,
s. 103.

**104.** The power of attorney mentioned in
section 103 shall expressly authorize the agent
or manager, so far as respects business done
by him within the province for which he is
agent or manager, to accept service of process
in all suits and proceedings against the
company in such province for any liabilities
incurred by the company therein, and shall
declare that service of process on such agent
or manager for such liabilities is legal and
binding on the company to all intents and
purposes whatever, and shall waive all claims
of error by reason of such service. R.S., c. 170,
s. 104.
Powers of Company

**105.** Any company that has received a
licence under this Part and has duly filed as
aforesaid such certified copy of charter, Act
of incorporation or articles of association and
power of attorney may transact any loaning
business, of any description whatever, within
Canada, in its corporate name, except the
business of banking, and may take and hold
any mortgages of real estate, and any railway,
municipal, or other bonds of any kind
whatever, on the security of which it lends its
money, at any rate of interest not exceeding
the rate permissible on such securities by the
Acts incorporating similar companies in the
provinces of Canada, and whether the bonds
form a charge on real estate within Canada
or not. R.S., c. 170, s. 105.

**106.** (1) A company that has received a
licence under this Part may take and hold
such mortgages in its corporate name, and
may sell and transfer the same, and hold and
convey the title to real estate acquired as
mortgagees or chargees.
(2) Such company shall sell or dispose of
the real estate so acquired within five years
from the time when the mortgage on such
real estate becomes due and payable under
the terms of the instrument creating such
mortgage. R.S., c. 170, s. 106.
Procedure

**107.** After such certified copy of charter,
Act of incorporation or articles of association,
and such power of attorney are filed as
any process in any suit, action or
against such company, for any
incurred in any province, may be
upon the manager or agent so
authorized in the same manner as process is
served upon the proper officer of any company
incorporated in such province; and all
proceedings may be had thereupon to judg
ment and execution in the same manner as in
proceedings in any civil suit or action in such
province. R.S., c. 170, s. 107.
Notices

**108.** (1) Every company that obtains a
licence under this Part shall forthwith give
due notice thereof in the Canada Gazette, and
in at least one newspaper in the county, city
or place where the principal manager or agent
of such company transacts the business
thereof, and shall continue the publication
thereof for the space of one calendar month.
(2) Like notice shall be given when such
company ceases to carry on business within
the province, and like publication shall be
had of notice that it ceases so to carry on
business. R.S., c. 170, s. 108.
Returns

**109.** Every company authorized under this
Part to lend and invest money in Canada,
shall, by its agent or manager in Canada
make returns to the Minister of all the
business done by it in Canada, at the same
time and in the same manner as if such
company had been incorporated under the
provisions of Part HI of the Companies Act,
chapter 79 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,

**1906.** R.S., c. 170,s. 109.
Licence Fee

**110.** The fee to be paid by a company, on
the issuing of a licence under this Part, is
twenty dollars. R.S., c. 170, s. 110.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE

## MODEL BILL FOR INCORPORATION

## OF A LOAN COMPANY
An Act to incorporate the (state the name of the company)
WHEREAS the persons hereinafter named have by their
petition prayed that it be enacted as hereinafter set forth and
it is expedient to grant the prayer of the said petition :
Therefore Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as
follows :

**1.** (Insert the names oj the persons applying for incorpora
tion), together with such persons as become shareholders in
the company, are incorporated under the name of (state name
of company) hereinafter called "the company".

**2.** The persons named in section 1 (or as the case may be)
shall be the provisional directors of the company. ( The name,
address and calling of each director must be given.)

**3.** The capital stock of the company shall be ....
dollars, which may be increased to.... dollars.

**4.** The amount to be subscribed before the provisional
directors may call a general meeting of the shareholders shall
be dollars.

**5.** The company shall not commence business until
dollars of the capital stock have been subscribed and
dollars paid thereon.

**6.** The head office of the company shall be in the
of in the Province of

**7.** The company has all the powers, privileges and im
munities conferred by, and is subject to all the limitations,
liabilities and provisions of, the Loan Companies Act.
