Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"affidavit" includes an affirmation when
made by a person entitled to affirm ;
"certificate of title" means the certificate
(Form E) granted by the registrar and
entered and kept in the register;
"court" means any court authorized to
adjudicate in the Territories in civil matters
in which the title to real estate is in
question ;
"duplicate" or "duplicate certificate" means
the duplicate, delivered or issued to the
person entitled thereto, of the certificate of
title in the register;
"encumbrance" means any charge on land,
created or effected for any purpose what
ever, inclusive of mortgages, mechanics
liens when authorized by statute or ordi
nance, and executions against lands, unless
expressly distinguished ;
"encumbrancer" means the owner of any land
or of any estate or interest in land subject
to any encumbrance; and "encumbrancee"
means the owner of an encumbrance ;
"endorsed" and "endorsement" apply to
anything written upon any instrument or
upon any paper attached thereto by the
registrar ;
"Form" means a Form in the schedule;
direct from Her Majesty or by or pursuant
to any statute ;
"inspector" means the inspector of land titles
offices, appointed under the authority of
this Act ;
"instrument" means any grant, certificate of
title, conveyance, assurance, deed, map,
plan, will, probate or exemplification of
probate of will, letters of administration or
an exemplification thereof, mortgage or
encumbrance, or any other document in
writing relating to or affecting the transfer
of or other dealing with land or evidencing
title thereto;
"judge" means an official authorized in the
Territories to adjudicate in civil matters in
which the title to real estate is in question ;
"land" means lands, messuages, tenements
and hereditaments, corporeal and incor
poreal, of every nature and description, and
every estate or interest therein, whether
such estate or interest is legal or equitable,
together with all paths, passages, ways,
watercourses, liberties, privileges, ease
ments, mines, minerals and quarries apper
taining thereto, and all trees and timber
thereon and thereunder lying or being,
unless any such are specially excepted ;
"lunatic" means any person found by any
competent tribunal or commission de lunati-
co inquirendo, to be a lunatic ;
"memorandum" means the endorsement upon
the certificate of title and on the duplicate
copy thereof of the particulars of any
instrument presented for registration;
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development ; and
"Department" means the Department of
Indian Affairs and Northern Development ;
"mortgage" means any charge on land created
merely for securing a debt, or a loan;
"mortgagee" means the owner of a mortgage ;
and "mortgagor" means the owner or
transferee of land, or of any estate or
interest in land pledged as security for a
debt or a loan;
"notification" means a direction in a form
prescribed by the Governor in Council
pursuant to the Territorial Lands Act and
issued pursuant to that Act ;
"owner" means any person or body corporate
entitled to any freehold or other estate or
interest in land, at law or in equity, in
possession, in futurity or expectancy;
"person of unsound mind" means any person
not an infant who, not having been found
to be a lunatic, has been found on like
inquiry to be incapable, from infirmity of
mind, of managing his own affairs ;
"possession", when applied to persons claim
ing title to land, means also alternatively
the reception of the rents and profits
thereof;
"register" means the register of titles to land
kept in accordance with this Act ;
"registrar" means a registrar of titles or any
deputy registrar or inspector of titles when
acting as registrar;
"registration" means
  * (_a_) the bringing of lands under the provi
sions of this Act; and
(6) the entering upon the certificate of title
of a memorandum authorized by this Act,
of any documents,
and "filing" means the entering in the day
book of any instrument ;
"Territories" means the Northwest Territories
and the Yukon Territory ;
"transfer" means the passing of any estate or
interest in land under this Act, whether for
valuable consideration or otherwise ;
"transferor" means the person by whom any
interest or estate in land is transferred,
whether for value or otherwise, and
"transferee" means the person to whom any
interest or estate in land is transferred,
whether for value or otherwise;
"transmission" applies to change of ownership
consequent upon death, lunacy, sale under
execution, order of court or other act of
law, or upon a sale for arrears of taxes or
upon any settlement or any legal succession
in case of intestacy. R.S., c. 162, s. 2; 1966-
67, c. 25, s. 40; 1967-68, c. 32, s. 5.

**3.** A person shall be deemed to claim under
a prior certificate of title who is a holder of,
or whose claim is derived directly or indirectly
from a person who was the holder of an earlier
certificate of title, notwithstanding that such
certificate of title has been surrendered and a
new certificate of title has been granted upon
any transfer or other instrument. R.S., c. 162,
s. 3.

**4.** Nothing in this Act takes away or affects
the jurisdiction of any competent court on
the ground of actual fraud or over contracts
for the sale or other disposition of land for
which a certificate of title has been granted.
R.S., c. 162, s. 4.

## DOWER AND CURTESY

**5.** No widow whose husband died on or
after the 1st day of January 1887 is entitled
to dower in the land of her deceased husband ;
but she has the same right in such land as if
it were personal property. R.S., c. 162, s. 12.

**6.** No husband whose wife died on or after
the 1st day of January 1887 is entitled to any
estate by the curtesy in the land of his
deceased wife ; but he has the same right
therein as a wife has in the personal property
of her deceased husband. R.S., c. 162, s. 13.

## MARRIED WOMEN

**7.** Upon application by a married woman
wno De f re marriage became a party to an
instrument or acquired an interest in land,
accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant
giving the date of her marriage, the place
solemnized, and her husband s full
name, residence and occupation, together with
other evidence as the registrar may
the applicant may deal with the
acquired name. R.S., c. 162, s. 17.

## REGISTRATION DISTRICTS

**8.** The Governor in Council may, from
time to time, by proclamation, as the
settlement of the country and the exigencies
of the public service require, constitute any
portion of the Territories a land registration
district, and declare by what local name it
shall be known and designated, and may also
from time to time change the boundaries of
existing districts. R.S., c. 162, s. 18.

**9.** The boundaries of any district already
constituted shall be as already defined, subject
to change as provided in section 8. U.S., c.
162, s. 19.

**10.** For each registration district there shall
be an office, to be called "The Land Titles
Office", which shall be in the district at some
convenient and suitable place to be deter
mined by the Governor in Council. R.S., c.
162, s. 20(1).
j. jf j n an y district no such place as is
mentioned in section 10 can be found, the
Governor in Council may order that the land
titles office for that district shall be in the
city of Ottawa, in the Province of Ontario,
until such place can be found. R.S., c. 162,
s. 20(2).

**12.** The Governor in Council may provide
in each registration district at the public
expense, and may thereafter maintain, in a
proper state of repair, as the land titles office
for the district, a building of stone or brick,
or partly of brick and partly of stone, to serve
as the office of the registrar, and as the place
of deposit and preservation of registers and
other record books, certificates, instruments
and documents connected with the registration
of titles ; and may fit up the office with such
fire-proof safes and other secure places as are
necessary. R.S., c. 162, s. 21.

**13.** The Governor in Council shall, from
to time, provide all such books, forms
other office requisites, as are necessary
use under this Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 22.
OFFICERS

**14.** The Governor in Council may, from
time to time, appoint an inspector of land
titles offices, whose duties are, under instruc
tions from the Minister, to inspect the books
and records of the several land titles offices,
and to perform such other duties as he may
be directed by the Minister to perform, and
the inspector may in the discretion of the
Minister be directed to perform any duty
which any registrar is empowered by this Act
to perform. R.S., c. 162, s. 23.

**15.** No person shall be appointed inspector
of land titles offices unless he is when
appointed a barrister, solicitor or advocate of
at least three years standing of one of the
provinces of Canada. R.S., c. 162, s. 24.

**16.** The business of each land titles office
shall be conducted by an officer called the
registrar, appointed by the Governor in
Council, with such assistants and clerks as are
necessary and as the Governor in Council
from time to time appoints. R.S., c. 162,
s. 25(1).

**17.** The registrar holds office during pleas
ure. R.S., c. 162, s. 25(2).

**18.** Whenever occasion requires, the Gov
ernor in Council may, from time to time,
appoint a deputy registrar to assist the
registrar under instructions from the latter.
R.S., c. 162, s. 26(1).

**19.** The deputy registrar may, in the event
of the illness or absence from office of the
registrar, perform all the duties required by
this Act to be done by the registrar. R.S., c.
162, s. 26(2).

**20.** In case of the death, resignation or
removal from office of the registrar the deputy
registrar shall do and perform all the duties
of the registrar under this Act until another
registrar is appointed. R.S., c. 162, s. 26(3).

**21.** The inspector, the registrars, deputy
and other necessary officers shall
attached to the Department and be under
control of the Minister; and their salaries,
such incidental expenses of carrying on
Act as are sanctioned by this Act or by
the Governor in Council, shall be paid out of
moneys provided by Parliament for that
purpose. R.S., c. 162, s. 27.

**22.** The inspector and every registrar and
deputy registrar, before he enters upon the
execution of his office, shall take before a
judge of any court of record the oath of office
in Form A. R.S., c. 162, s. 28.

**23.** Before an inspector of land titles offices
or any registrar or deputy registrar is sworn
into office, he shall furnish to Her Majesty
security in a penal sum of not less than one
thousand dollars for the true and faithful
performance of his duty in respect to all
things directed to be done or required of him
by this Act or any law in that behalf. U.S., c.
162, s. 29(1).

**24.** The security required under section 23
shall, in the discretion of the Minister, be
either a joint and several bond of the inspector
of land titles offices, registrar, or deputy
registrar, as the case may be, and two sureties,
or a guarantee bond of a guarantee company
duly approved by the Governor in Council.
R.S., c. 162, s. 29(2).

**25.** The bond or guarantee bond mentioned
in section 24 shall be in duplicate and shall
be subject to the approval of the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 162, s. 29(3).

**26.** (1) When the security to be so furnished
is a joint and several bond the same shall be
executed under the hands and seals of the
obligors in Form B, and sureties shall justify
under oath in Form C and the execution of
the said bond shall be duly certified by the
affidavit of a subscribing witness in Form D.
(2) One of the duplicates, with the affidavits
shall then be forthwith transmitted
the Registrar General of Canada to be
filed in his office, and the other shall be filed
in the office of the Commissioner of the
Northwest Territories or the Yukon Territory
to which the appointment relates. R.S., c. 162,
s. 30; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**27.** The inspector, and any registrar or
deputy registrar shall, when required by the
Minister, furnish such further or other security
as is deemed expedient. R.S., c. 162, s. 31.

**28.** Neither the inspector nor any registrar,
deputy registrar or clerk in any land titles
office shall
  * (_a_) directly or indirectly, act as the agent
of any person investing money and taking
securities on land within any registration
district ;
(6) advise for fee or reward or otherwise
upon titles to land ;
  * (_c_) practise as a conveyancer ; or
  * (_d_) carry on or transact within the land
titles office, any business or occupation
whatever, other than his duties as such
inspector, registrar, deputy registrar or clerk.
R.S., c. 162, s. 32.

**29.** Neither the inspector nor any registrar,
deputy registrar, or person acting under
authority of a registrar, is liable to any action
or proceeding for or in respect of any act bona
fide done or omitted to be done in the exercise
or supposed exercise of the powers given by
this Act, or by any order or general rule made
in pursuance thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 33.

**30.** Each registrar shall have a seal of
office, approved by the Governor in Council,
with which he shall seal all certificates of
title. R.S., c. 162, s. 34.

**31.** The registrar shall stamp all instru
ments that are presented to him for registra
tion, showing the day, hour and minute of
their receipt. R.S., c. 162, s. 35.

**32.** The inspector, or within his district
any registrar or deputy registrar, may admin
ister any oath or take any affirmation or
respecting titles to land. R.S., c.
s. 36.

**33.** Every registrar shall, when required,
under seal, an exemplification, copy
abstract of any instrument affecting lands,
deposited, filed or registered in his office, and
every such exemplification and every duly
certified copy shall be received as evidence in
the same manner and with the same effect as
if the original were produced. R.S., c. 162,
s. 37.

**34.** Every land titles office shall be kept
open on all days, except Sundays and legal
holidays, between the hours of ten o clock in
the forenoon and four o clock in the afternoon,
during which time either the registrar or the
deputy registrar shall be in attendance, except
that on Saturdays the office shall be closed
at one o clock in the afternoon. R.S., c. 162,
s. 38.

## BOOKS

**35.** The registrar shall keep a book called
the day-book, in which shall be entered by a
short description every instrument given in
for registration relating to lands for which a
certificate of title has issued or been applied
for, with the day, hour and minute of its so
being given in. R.S., c. 162, s. 39(1).

**36.** For the purposes of priority between
mortgagees, transferees and others, the time
entered in the day-book pursuant to section
35 shall be taken as the time of registration.
R.S., c. 162, s. 39(2).

**37.** The registrar, in endorsing a memo-
rancj um upon the certificate of title embodied
in the register or upon the duplicate, shall
take the time from the day-book as the time
of registration. R.S., c. 162, s. 39(3).

**38.** Unless required so to do by order of a
court or judge, the registrar shall not receive
or enter in the day-book any instrument until
the duplicate certificate of title for the land
affected is produced to him so as to enable
him to enter the proper memorandum on such
duplicate certificate. R.S., c. 162, s. 40.
  * (_a_) executions against lands, caveats,
mechanics liens, transfers by a sheriff or
municipal officer or by order of a court or
judge;
(6) transfers on sales of lands for taxes,
maps or plans that do not require to be
registered, or certificates or orders of a court
or judge; or
  * (_c_) a mortgage or other encumbrance created
by any person rightfully in possession of
land, prior to the issue of the grant from
the Crown, or prior to the issue of transfer
from the Hudson s Bay Company or from
any company entitled to a grant of such
lands from the Crown or to which letters
patent from the Crown or a notification for
such land have already issued, if there is
produced to and left with the registrar
along with the mortgage an affidavit made
by the mortgagor or encumbrancer in Form
Q ; and also in the case of lands mortgaged
or encumbered prior to the issue of transfer
as aforesaid, a certificate from the land
commissioner or other proper officer of the
company that the purchase price of such
mortgaged lands has been paid and that
the applicant is entitled to a transfer in fee
simple therefor from the company. R.S., c.
162, s. 41 ; 1967-68, c. 32, s. 6.

**40.** The registrar shall also keep a book or
books which shall be called the register, and
shall enter therein all certificates of title, and
shall record therein the particulars of all
instruments, dealings and other matters by
this Act required to be registered or entered
in the register and affecting the land included
in such certificate of title. R.S., c. 162, s. 42(1).

**41.** Certificates of title shall be in Form E,
and each certificate shall constitute a separate
of the register. R.S., c. 162, s. 42(2).

**42.** (1) Upon every transfer of ownership,
certificate of title of the transferor and
the duplicate thereof shall be cancelled, and
the certificate of title of the transferee shall
thereupon be entered upon a new folio in the
register.
(2) The registrar shall note upon the folio
of the title of the transferor the number of
the folio of the transferee s title, and upon
that of the transferee the number of the folio
of the transferor, so that reference can be
readily made from one to the other, as
occasion requires. R.S., c. 162, s. 43.

## REGISTRATION

**43.** Every grant shall be deemed and taken
to be registered under the provisions and for
the purposes of this Act so soon as it has been
marked by the registrar with the folio and
volume on and in which it is embodied in the
register. R.S., c. 162, s. 44(1).

**44.** Every instrument other than a grant
shall be deemed to be registered so soon as a
memorandum of it has been entered in the
register upon the folio constituted by the
existing grant or certificate of title of such
land. R.S., c. 162, s. 44(2).

**45.** The registrar shall retain in his office
every registered instrument. R.S., c. 162, s. 45.

**46.** Every memorandum entered in the
reg j ster g^n state t he nature of the instrument
to which such memorandum relates, the day,
the hour and the minute of its registration,
and the names of the parties thereto, and
shall refer by number or symbol to such
instrument, and shall be signed by the
registrar. R.S., c. 162, s. 46.

**47.** (1) Whenever a memorandum has been
entered in the register, the registrar shall
make a like memorandum upon the duplicate
when the duplicate is presented to him for
the purpose, and sign and seal such memo
randum.
(2) Such memorandum shall be received as
conclusive evidence of its contents and that
the instrument of which it is a memorandum
has been duly registered under this Act. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 47.

**48.** Whenever any land is granted in the
Territories by the Crown, the letters patent
or notification therefor, when issued, shall be
forwarded to the registrar of the registration
district in which the land so granted is
situated, and the registrar shall retain the
letters patent or notification in his office.
1967-68, c. 32, s. 7.

**49.** A certificate of title, as provided by
this Act, with any necessary qualification,
shall be granted to a patentee or a person
named in a notification, and a duplicate of
such certificate of title shall be issued to the
patentee or person so named, free of all fees
and charges, if at the time of the issue thereof
there are no encumbrances or other instru
ments affecting the land registered in the
land titles office. 1967-68, c. 32, s. 7.

**50.** If there are any instruments registered
that encumber or affect the title, a duplicate
of such certificate shall be issued upon the
payment of such fees as are fixed or may be
from time to time fixed by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 162, s. 50.
5 1. (1) A notification to the registrar from
the Minister that land described therein has
been granted to the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company, or to any other railway company
entitled to Crown lands under the authority
of an Act of Parliament, shall be accepted by
the registrar and dealt with by him in all
respects as if it were letters patent in favour
of the company.
(2) The notification shall state the nature
of the grant and shall specify any mines,
minerals, easements or rights that are excepted
from the grant. R.S., c. 162, s. 51.

**52.** (1) A notification to the registrar from
the Commissioner of the Northwest Territo
ries, that the land described in such notifica
tion is part of any road allowance or trail
that has been closed and has been transferred
to the person named as transferee in such
notification, or in a transfer attached thereto,
(2) The notification shall state the nature
of the grant and shall specify any mines,
minerals, easements or rights that areexcepted
from the grant. R.S., c. 162, s. 52.

**53.** The owner of any estate for life or for
a term of more than three years, in any land
for which the grant from the Crown has been
registered, may apply to have his title
registered, and to have a certificate of title
issued to him therefor under this Act. R.S., c.
162, s. 53.

## APPLICATIONS TO BRING LAND UNDER
THIS ACT

**54.** (1) The owner of any estate or interest
in any land, whether legal or equitable, letters
patent for which issued from the Crown before
the 1st day of January 1887, or which
otherwise had prior to that date passed from
the Crown, may apply to have his title
registered under this Act.
(2) If at the time of the grant of the
certificate of title, there are no registered
encumbrances or conveyances affecting such
land, the certificate may be granted to the
patentee upon payment of such fees as are
fixed by the Governor in Council, but no fees
are payable therefor under the provisions of
this Act relating to the assurance fund. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 54.

**55.** (1) The application shall be made in
writing to the registrar of the registration
district in which the land is situated, in Form
F, and shall be verified by affidavit of
the applicant or some one on his behalf in
Form G.
(2) The application shall be accompanied
i
  * (_a_) all deeds, if any, in possession of the
applicant ;
(6) a certificate showing all registrations
affecting the title, down to the time when
such application is filed, with copies of any
registered documents, the originals of which
he is unable to produce ;
  * (_c_) a certificate from the sheriff showing
that there is no execution in his hands
against the applicant s lands; and
  * (_d_) if the land is within any organized
municipality or school district, a certificate
of payment of taxes.
(3) It is not in any case necessary for any
applicant to produce copies of any document
the original of which is at the time of the
application of record in the office of the
registrar to whom the application is made;
nor, for the Hudson s Bay Company, in the
case of any lands the title to which passed to
that company before the 1st day of January
1887, to produce to the registrar any of the
certificates mentioned in this section, if the
application is accompanied by an affidavit
by any officer of the company approved by
the Minister in Form H.
(4) In case the land is not within any
organized municipality or school district and
by reason thereof a certificate of taxes cannot
be produced, the fact must be set forth in the
application. R.S., c. 162, s. 55.

**56.** Where the applicant is the original
grantee of the Crown, and no deed, transfer,
mortgage or other encumbrance, or instrument
or cavea t affecting the title appears to have
been recorded ; or where he is not the original
grantee, and all the original title deeds are
produced, and no person other than the
applicant is in actual possession of the land,
and no caveat has been registered, the
registrar, if he entertains no doubt as to the
title of the applicant, shall grant a certificate
of title as herein provided. R.S., c. 162, s. 56.

**57.** (1) Contiguous unsubdivided lands not
exceeding altogether two thousand acres or
any number of lots under the same plan of
subdivision may be included in one applica
tion.
(2) In no case shall one certificate of title
issue for more than twenty-five lots or for lots
in more than one subdivision or for unsubdi
vided lands that are not contiguous or that
contain more than two thousand acres. R.S.,
162, s. 57.

**53.** Where there is any mortgage or
against the land at the date of
application, the filing with the registrar
of the original mortgage or the instrument
creating the encumbrance, or a copy of such
mortgage or instrument, having endorsed
thereon or attached thereto a receipt, which
may be in Form R, for the payment of the
amount thereby secured, signed by the
mortgagee or encumbrancee, attested by an
affidavit of the witness, operates as a discharge
of such mortgage or encumbrance. R.S., c.
162, s. 58.

**59.** Where any person other than the
i , ,
applicant appears by admission or otherwise
to be interested in the land, and
  * (_a_) the applicant desires to have his title
registered subject to the interest of such
other person,
(6) such interest is by virtue of a mortgage,
encumbrance, or lease, or is a charge created
by any other instrument, and
  * (_c_) such instrument is at the time of the
application of record in the office of the
registrar to whom the application is made,
or, if not so of record, is then produced to
the registrar,
the registrar may, if he entertains no doubt
as to the extent and nature of such interest,
or as to the title of the applicant, register the
title and grant a certificate of title and issue
a duplicate certificate subject to such interest.
R.S., c. 162, s. 59.
go. In any case where the person who
appears to be interested in land is a consenting
party to an application, the registrar may, if
he entertains no doubt as to the title of the
applicant, grant a certificate of title subject
to the terms of the consent, if such consent is
in writing signed by the consenting party in
the presence of a witness, and attested in the
manner required by this Act for the attestation
of instruments not under seal. R.S., c. 162,
s.

**61.** In all cases other than those provided
for in sections 56, 58, 59 and 60, the registrar
shall forthwith, on giving the applicant a
certificate of the filing of his application,
transmit the application, with all evidence
provided. R.S., c. 162, s. 61.

**62.** The judge shall examine, without
delay, all titles that are submitted to him,
and for such purpose shall, when necessary,
hear all persons interested, or claiming to be
interested, and shall hear and consider the
claims as against the applicant, of any person
who is in possession of the land ; and he has
and shall exercise all the powers for compelling
the attendance of persons and the production
of documents that usually appertain to courts
of civil justice and the judges thereof in civil
actions brought therein. R.S., c. 162, s. 62.

**63.** Any person having an adverse claim,
or a claim not recognized in the application
for registration may, at any time before the
judge has approved of the applicant s title,
file with the registrar a short statement of his
claim, verified by affidavit, and a copy of
such statement shall be served on the
applicant, or his advocate or his agent. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 63.

**64.** Where any adverse claim is filed, the
judge shall proceed to examine into and
adjudicate thereon, and no certificate of title
shall be granted until such adverse claim has
been disposed of. R.S., c. 162, s. 64.

**65.** In any case before him, the judge may
direct that notice of the application be
published in some newspaper or newspapers
in such form and for such period as he thinks
expedient, and no order for registration shall
be granted by him until after the expiration
of at least four weeks from the first publication
of the notice, if he has directed the notice to
be published. R.S., c. 162, s. 65.

**66.** The judge, if satisfied with the appli
cant s title, shall thereupon make an order
directing the registrar, after the expiration of
four weeks from the date thereof, unless in
the meantime the order is appealed from, to
register the title. R.S., c. 162, s. 66.

**67.** After registration of a title the registrar,
upon application by the owner or his duly
authorized agent, shall make out, sign,
the certificate of title in the register on
shall be entered all memoranda
on or attached to the certificate of
U.S., c. 162, s. 67.

## EFFECT OF REGISTRATION

**58.** In every instrument transferring,
encumbering or charging any land for which
a certificate of title has been granted, there
shall be implied the following covenant by
the transferor or encumbrancer, namely, that
the transferor or encumbrancer will do such
acts and execute such instruments as, in
accordance with this Act, are necessary to give
effect to all covenants, conditions and pur
poses expressly set forth in such instrument,
or by this Act declared to be implied against
such person in instruments of a like nature.
R.S., c. 162, s. 68.

**69.** In every instrument transferring land,
for which a certificate of title has been
granted, subject to mortgage or encumbrance,
there shall be implied the covenant by the
transferee, that the transferee will pay the
principal money, interest, annuity or rent
charge secured by the mortgage or encum
brance, at the rate and at the time specified
in the instrument creating the same, and will
indemnify and keep harmless the transferor
from and against the principal sum or other
moneys secured by the instrument creating
such mortgage or encumbrance, and from and
against the liability in respect of any covenant
therein contained or under this Act implied,
on the part of the transferor. R.S., c. 162,
s. 69.

**70.** After a certificate of title has been
granted for any land, no instrument, until
registered under this Act, is, as against any
bona fide transferee of the land under this
Act, effectual to pass any estate or interest in
such land except a leasehold interest not
exceeding three years, or to render such land
liable as security for the payment of money.
R.S., c. 162, s. 70.

**71.** Upon the registration of any instru
ment in the manner herein prescribed, the
manner and subject to the covenants, condi
tions and contingencies set forth and specified
in such instrument, or by this Act declared to
be implied in instruments of a like nature.
R.S.,c. 162, s. 71.

**72.** (1) The owner of land for which a
certificate of title has been granted, except in
case of a fraud wherein he has participated or
colluded, holds such land subject, in addition
to the incidents implied by virtue of this Act,
to such encumbrances, liens, estates or interests
as are notified on the folio of the register that
constitutes the certificate of title, but abso
lutely free from all encumbrances, liens,
estates or interests whatever, except the estate
or interest of an owner claiming the same
land under a prior certificate of title granted
under this Act.
(2) Such priority shall, in favour of any
person in possession of land, be computed
with reference to the grant or earliest
certificate of title under which he or any
person through whom he derives title, has
held such possession. R.S., c. 162, s. 72.

**73.** The title to the land mentioned in any
certificate of title granted under this Act is,
by implication, and without any special
mention in the certificate, unless the contrary
is expressly declared, subject to
  * (_a_) any subsisting reservations or exceptions
contained in the original grant of the land
from the Crown ;
(6) all unpaid taxes;
  * (_c_) any public highway or right-of-way or
other public easement, however created,
upon, over or in respect of the land ;
  * (_d_) any subsisting lease or agreement for a
lease for a period not exceeding three years,
where there is actual occupation of the land
under such lease or agreement ;
  * (_e_) any decrees, orders or executions against
or affecting the interest of the owner in the
land, that have been registered and main
tained in force against the owner;
  * (_f_) any right of expropriation that may, by
statute or ordinance, be vested in the Crown
or in any person or body corporate; and
(0) any right-of-way or other easement
granted or acquired under the Irrigation
Act, chapter 104 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1927. R.S., c. 162, s. 73.

**74.** The registrar has power to decide
whether any instrument that is presented to
him for registration is substantially in con
formity with the proper form in the schedule,
or not, and to reject any instrument that he
may decide to be unfit for registration. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 74.

**75.** (1) No memorandum or entry shall be
made upon a certificate of title or upon the
duplicate thereof of any notice of trusts,
whether expressed, implied, or constructive.
(2) The registrar shall treat any instrument
containing any such notice as if there were
no trust ; and the trustees therein named shall
be deemed to be the absolute and beneficial
owners of the land for the purposes of this
Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 75.

**76.** Every instrument becomes operative
according to the tenor and intent thereof, so
soon as registered, and thereupon creates,
transfers, surrenders, charges or discharges, as
the case may be, the land or estate or interest
mentioned in such instrument. R.S., c. 162,
s. 76.

**77.** Instruments registered in respect of or
affecting the same land are entitled to priority
the one over the other according to the time
of registration and not according to the date
of execution. R.S., c. 162, s. 77.

## TRANSFERS

**78.** When land for which a certificate of
title has been granted, is intended to be
transferred, or any right-of-way or other
easement affecting such land is intended to
be created or transferred, the owner may
execute a transfer in Form I, which transfer
shall, for description of the land intended to
be dealt with, refer to the certificate of title
of the land, or shall give such description as
is sufficient to identify the same, and shall
contain an accurate statement of the estate,
interest or easement intended to be created or
transferred, and a memorandum of each lease,
and other encumbrance to which
land is subject. R.S., c. 162, s. 78.

**79.** (1) No words of limitation are necessary
in any transfer of any land in order to transfer
all or any title therein, but every instrument
transferring land operates as an absolute
transfer of all such right and title as the
transferor has therein at the time of its
execution, unless a contrary intention is
expressed in the transfer; but nothing herein
contained precludes any transfer from operat
ing by way of estoppel.
(2) The introduction of any words of
limitation into any transfer or devise of any
land, has the like force and meaning, as the
same words of limitation would have if used
by way of limitation of any personal estate.
R.S., c. 162, s. 79.

**80.** Whenever any easement or any incor
poreal right in or over any land for which a
certificate of title has been granted is created
for the purpose of being annexed to or used
and enjoyed together with other land for
which a certificate of title has also been
granted, the registrar shall make a memoran
dum of the instrument creating such easement
or incorporeal right upon the folio of the
register that constitutes the existing certificate
of title of such other land and upon the
duplicate thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 80.

**81.** Where a transfer purports to transfer
the transferor s interest in the whole or part
of the land mentioned in any certificate of
title, the transferor shall deliver up the
duplicate certificate of title of the land, and
the registrar shall make a memorandum
setting forth the particulars of the transfer
upon the duplicate certificate of title and
upon the certificate of title in the register,
cancelling the certificate, either wholly or
partially, according as the transfer purports
to transfer the whole or part only of the
interest of the transferor in the said land.
R.S., c. 162, s. 81.

**82.** Upon every transfer of the land
mentioned in a certificate of title, the

## PLANS
c 83. (1) The , registrar ... . . . may require . the owner
of an y land within his registration district
desiring to transfer or otherwise deal with the
land under this Act, to furnish the registrar
with a map or plan of the land, having the
several measurements marked thereon, certi
fied by a Dominion land surveyor, and
prepared upon one of the following scales :
  * (_a_) if the land proposed to be transferred
or dealt with is of less area than one acre,
then the map or plan shall be on a scale
not less than one inch to two chains ;
  * (_b_) if the land is of greater area than one
acre, but not exceeding five acres, then the
map or plan shall be on a scale not less
than one inch to five chains ; and
  * (_c_) if the land is of greater area than five
acres, but not exceeding eighty acres, then
the map or plan shall be on a scale not less
than one inch to ten chains.
(2) The owner shall sign the plan and attest
the accuracy of the plan in the manner herein
provided for the attestation of all instruments.
(3) if the owner neglects or refuses to
comply with the requirements aforesaid, the
registrar shall not proceed with the registration
of the transfer or dealing until the require
ments are complied with.
(4) Subsequent subdivisions of the same
land may be delineated upon a duplicate of
the map or plan of the same so furnished, if
such map is upon a sufficient scale, in
accordance with the provisions herein con
tained ; and the correctness of the delineation
of each such subdivision shall be attested in
the manner prescribed for the attestation of
an original map.
(5) Where parts of different subdivisions
authorized under the Canada lands system of
survey are included in the same transfer, the
map shall represent the whole of each of such
subdivisions, and shall indicate the location
of the land to be transferred, except that this
is not necessary in the case of lots in a city,
town or village, the plan of which has been
registered. R.S., c. 162, s. 83.

**84.** Any plan that has been prepared in
with the provisions of any Act of
the Parliament of Canada, and has been
lodged or filed with the registrar under or in
accordance with the said provisions, shall be
dealt with and recognized by him, in so far as
it is capable of being dealt with and
recognized, as if it had been prepared and
filed or registered under and in accordance
with this Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 84.

**85.** Any map or plan attested by the
signature of the Minister or his deputy, and
certified by a Dominion land surveyor to be
a true copy of a plan of survey lodged or
filed in the Department, of lands described as
surrendered lands in the Indian Act, shall be
dealt with and recognized in accordance with
this Act by the registrar of the district in
which the said lands are situated when the
said map or plan has been lodged or filed
with him, notwithstanding that the Indian
Act does not expressly authorize the map or
plan to be so lodged or filed. R.S., c. 162, s.
85; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.

**86.** (1) Any owner subdividing land, and
laying the land out as a town-plot, for the
purpose of selling the land in allotments,
shall deposit with the registrar a map of such
town-plot, whether or not a certificate of title
has been granted for such lands or any part
thereof.
(2) The map mentioned in subsection (1)
shall be made on a scale of not less than one
inch to four chains, and shall show
  * (_a_) the number of the section, township and
range, or the number of the river lot, or the
name of the district or reservation, as the
case may be, in which the land lies;
(6) the number of the meridian west of
which such range, river lot, district or
reservation, is situated;
  * (_c_) all boundary lines within the limits of
the land shown on the map of sections,
river lots, districts or reservations ;
  * (_d_) all roads, streets, passages, thorough
fares, squares or reservations appropriated
or set apart for public use, with the courses
and widths thereof respectively ;
  * (_e_) the length and width of all lots;
(/) the courses of all division lines between
lots within the town-plot ; and
  * (_g_) the courses of all streams or waters
the map.
(3) The lots shall be marked with distinct
numbers or symbols.
(4) Every map shall be signed by every
owner or his agent, and certified in Form K
by a Dominion land surveyor, whose respective
signatures shall be duly witnessed and attested
in the manner herein provided for the
attestation of instruments to be registered
under this Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 86.

**87.** (1) In no case is any plan or survey,
although filed and registered, binding on the
person so filing or registering the plan or
survey, or upon any other person, unless a
sale, mortgage, encumbrance or lease has been
made according to such plan or survey.
(2) At the instance of the person filing or
registering the plan or survey, or of any
person deriving title through him to any land
shown on any such plan or survey , cancellation
in whole or in part, or amendments or
alterations of such plan or survey may be
made upon the order of a judge, if, on
application for the purpose duly made, and
upon hearing all parties concerned, it is
thought fit and just so to order, and the order
may be upon such terms and conditions as to
costs and otherwise as may be deemed
expedient. R.S., c. 162, s. 87.
LEASES

**88.** (1) When any land for which a certifi
cate of title has been granted is intended to
be leased or demised for a life or lives, or for
a term of more than three years, the owner
shall execute a lease in Form L, and every
such instrument shall, for description of the
land intended to be dealt with, refer to the
certificate of title of the land, or shall give
such other description as is necessary to
identify the land.
(2) A right for the lessee to purchase the
land therein described may be stipulated in
the instrument.
(3) In case the lessee pays the purchase
money stipulated, and otherwise observes his
covenants expressed and implied in the
the lessor is bound to execute a
to such lessee of the land, and to
perform all necessary acts by this Act
prescribed for the purpose of transferring the
land to the purchaser.
(4) No lease of mortgaged or encumbered
land is valid and binding against the
mortgagee or encumbrancee, unless the mort
gagee or encumbrancee consents to the lease
prior to the lease being registered, or
subsequently adopts the lease. R.S., c. 162,
s. 88.

**89.** In every lease, unless a contrary
intention appears therein, there shall be
implied covenants by the lessee
  * (_a_) that he will pay the rent thereby
reserved at the times therein mentioned,
and all rates and taxes that may be payable
in respect of the demised land during the
continuance of the lease, and
(6) that he will, at all times during the
continuance of the lease, keep and, at the
termination thereof, yield up the demised
land in good and tenantable repair, acci
dents and damage to buildings from fire,
storm and tempest or other casualty and
reasonable wear and tear excepted. R.S., c.
162, s. 89.

**90.** In every lease, unless a different
intention appears therein, there shall also be
implied powers in the lessor
  * (_a_) that, by himself or his agents, he may
enter upon the demised land and view the
state of repair thereof, and may serve upon
the lessee, or leave at his latest or usual
place of abode, or upon the demised land,
a notice in writing of any defect, requiring
him within a reasonable time, to be therein
mentioned, to repair the defect, in so far as
the tenant is bound so to do, and
(6) that in case the rent or any part thereof
is in arrears for the space of two calendar
months, or in case default is made in the
fulfilment of any covenant in such lease on
the part of the lessee, whether expressed or
implied, and is continued for the space of
two calendar months, or in case the repairs
required by such notice as aforesaid are not
completed within the time therein specified,
the lessor may enter upon and take
possession of the demised land. R.S., c. 162,
s. 90.
9 1. (1) In any such case, the registrar, upon
proof to his satisfaction of lawful re-entry
and recovery of possession by a lessor, or his
transferee by a legal proceeding, shall make
a memorandum of the same upon the
certificate of title, and upon the duplicate
thereof when presented to him for that
purpose, and the estate of the lessee in such
land thereupon determines, but without
releasing the lessee from his liability in respect
of the breach of any covenant in the lease,
expressed or implied.
(2) The registrar shall cancel the lease, if
delivered up to him for that purpose. R.S., c.
162,s.91.

**92.** (1) Whenever, in any lease made under
this Act, the forms of words in column one of
Form M, and distinguished by any number
therein, are used, the lease shall be taken to
have the same effect, and shall be construed
as if there had been inserted therein the form
of words contained in column two of the said
Form and distinguished by the same number,
but it is not necessary in any such lease to
insert any such number.
(2) Every such form shall be deemed a
covenant by the covenantor with the cove-
nantee and his transferees, binding the former
and his heirs, executors, administrators and
transferees.
(3) There may be introduced into or
annexed to any of the forms in the first
column any expressed exceptions from the
forms or expressed qualifications thereof
respectively, and the like exceptions or
qualifications shall be taken to be made from
or in the corresponding forms in the second
column. R.S., c. 162, s. 92.

**93.** (1) Whenever any lease or demise that
is required to be registered by this Act is
intended to be surrendered, and the surrender
thereof is effected otherwise than through the
operation of a surrender in law, upon the
production of the surrender, in Form N, to
the registrar, he shall make a memorandum
the surrender upon the certificate of title
in the register and upon the duplicate
but no lease subject to mortgage
encumbrance shall be surrendered without
consent of the mortgagee or encumbrancee.
(2) When the memorandum has been so
made, the estate or interest of the lessee in
the land vests in the lessor or in the person in
whom, having regard to intervening circum
stances, if any, the land would have vested if
the lease had never been executed. R.S., c.
162, s. 93.

## MORTGAGES AND ENCUMBRANCES

**94.** (1) Whenever any land, for which a
certificate of title has been granted, is
intended to be charged or made security in
favour of any mortgagee, the mortgagor shall
execute a mortgage in Form 0, or to the like
effect.
(2) Whenever any such land is intended to
be charged with or made security for the
payment of an annuity, rent, charge, or sum
of money, in favour of any encumbrancee,
the encumbrancer shall execute an encum
brance in Form P, or to the like effect.
(3) Every such instrument shall contain an
accurate statement of the estate or interest
intended to be mortgaged or encumbered, and
shall, for description of the land intended to
be dealt with, refer to the certificate of title
on which the estate or interest is held, or shall
give such other description as is necessary to
identify the land, together with all mortgages
or encumbrances affecting the land, if any.
(4) A memorandum of the mortgage or
encumbrance shall be made upon the certifi
cate of title in the register and upon the
duplicate thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 94.

**95.** (\) There may be filed in the office of
tne re ii strar anv mortgage or other encum
brance created by any person rightfully in
possession of land prior to the issue of the
grant from the Crown or prior to the issue of
the transfer from the Hudson s Bay Company
or from any company entitled to a grant of
such lands from the Crown or to which letters
patent from the Crown or a notification for
such mortgaged lands have already issued, if
there is produced to and left with the registrar
along with the mortgage an affidavit made
of lands mortgaged prior to the issue of
as aforesaid, a certificate from the
land commissioner or other proper officer of
company that the purchase price of such
mortgaged lands has been paid and that the
mortgagor is entitled to a transfer in fee
simple therefor from the company.
(2) The registrar shall, on registering the
r i j j ^t.
grant of lands so mortgaged, enter in the
register and endorse upon the duplicate
certificate of title, before issuing it, a
memorandum of the mortgage or encum
brance.
(3) When so entered the mortgage or
encumbrance is as valid as if made subsequent
to the issue of the grant, or to the issue of the
transfer as aforesaid.
(4) If more than one mortgage or encum
brance are filed they shall be registered in the
order of time in which they have been filed
in the office. R.S., c. 162, s. 95; 1967-68, c. 32,
s. 8.

**96.** (\) Nothing in this Act contained shall
entitle a settler who is entered for a homestead
or homestead and pre-emption, under the
provisions contained in the Dominion Lands
Act, chapter 113 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1927, to mortgage the land entered
for by him as a homestead or pre-emption
prior to the issue of a patent to him therefor
or until he has been recommended for patent
by the local agent and has received a
certificate of recommendation in accordance
with the said Act; and notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act any such
mortgage shall be deemed an assignment or
transfer prohibited by the Dominion Lands
Act.
(2) For the purpose of preventing the
acceptance an d registration of any such
mortgage, the registrar is hereby empowered
to refuse to register any mortgage for land
which the patent is not of record in the
land titles office, unless the applicant for the
registration of such mortgage first satisfies
the registrar that he is entitled to execute
such mortgage, by an affidavit, in Form Q,
and to be filed by the registrar with the
mortgage if the latter is accepted and filed or
registered by him. R.S., c. 162, s. 96.

**97.** (1) Where land is subject to a mortgage
or encumbrance the duplicate certificate of
title shall be deposited with the registrar who
shall retain it on behalf of all persons
interested in the land mentioned in the
certificate of title.
(2) The registrar shall furnish to the owner
of the mortgage or encumbrance a certificate
of charge in Form CC. R.S., c. 162, s. 97.

**98.** A mortgage or encumbrance under this
Act has effect as security, but does not operate
as transfer of the land thereby charged. U.S.,
c. 162, s. 98.

**99.** Proceedings to enforce payment of
moneys secured by mortgage or encumbrance,
or to enforce the observance of the covenants,
agreements, stipulations or conditions con
tained in any mortgage or encumbrance, or
for the sale of the lands mortgaged or
encumbered, or to foreclose the estate, interest
or claim of any person in or upon the land
mortgaged or encumbered, as also proceedings
to redeem or discharge any land from any
such mortgage or encumbrance, shall be had
and taken in the Northwest Territories, in the
Territorial Court, and in the Yukon Territory,
in the Territorial Court. R.S., c. 162, s. 99.

**100.** (1) Upon the production of any
mortgage or encumbrance having endorsed
thereon or attached thereto a receipt or
acknowledgment in Form R, signed by the
mortgagee or encumbrancee, and proved by
the affidavit of an attesting witness, discharg
ing the whole or any part of the land
comprised in such instrument from the whole
or any part of the principal sum or annuity
secured thereby, or upon proof being made to
satisfaction of a judge of the payment of
all or part of the moneys due on any mortgage
or encumbrance, and the production to the
of a certificate signed by the judge
to that effect, the registrar shall make an
entry on the certificate of title noting that
such mortgage or encumbrance is discharged
wholly or partially, or that part of the land
is discharged as aforesaid, as the case requires.
(2) Upon such entry being so made, the
land, or the estate or interest in the land or
the portion of the land mentioned or referred
to in such endorsement as aforesaid, ceases to
be subject to or liable for such principal sum
or annuity, or, as the case may be, for the
part thereof mentioned in such entry as
discharged. R.S., c. 162, s. 100.
10 1. (1) Upon proof of the death of the
annuitant, or of the occurrence of the event
or circumstance upon which, in accordance
with the provisions of any encumbrance, the
annuity or sum of money thereby secured
ceases to be payable, and upon proof that all
arrears of the annuity and interest or money
have been paid, satisfied or discharged, the
registrar shall, upon the order of a judge,
make a memorandum upon the certificate of
title in the register, that such annuity or sum
of money is satisfied and discharged, and
shall cancel such instrument.
(2) Upon such memorandum being made,
the land ceases to be subject to or liable for
such annuity or sum of money.
(3) The registrar shall, in any such case,
endorse on the duplicate certificate of title a
similar memorandum whenever such duplicate
certificate of title is presented to him for that
purpose. R.S., c. 162, s. 101.
1Q2. (1) Where any mortgagor becomes
entitled to pay off the mortgage money, and
the registered mortgagee is absent from the
Territories and there is no person authorized
by registered power of attorney to give a
receipt to the mortgagor for the mortgage
money after the date appointed for the
redemption of any mortgage, the judge, on
application to him and proof of the facts and
of the amount due for principal and interest
the mortgage, may direct the payment
into a chartered bank having a branch or
agency in the registration district, of the
mortgage money, with all arrears of interest
then due thereon, to the credit of the
mortgagee or other person entitled thereto ;
and thereupon the interest upon the mortgage
ceases to run or accrue.
(2) Where there is no branch or agency of
any chartered bank in the district, the order
may direct payment into a chartered bank
having a branch or agency in the Territories.
R.S., c. 162, s. 102.

**103.** (1) The registrar shall, upon presen
tation of the judge s order and of the receipt
of the manager or agent of the bank for the
amount of the mortgage money and interest,
make a memorandum upon the certificate of
title in the register discharging the mortgage,
stating the day, hour and minute on which
such memorandum is made.
(2) Such memorandum is a valid discharge
of the mortgage.
(3) The registrar shall, when such order and
receipt are presented to him, send a notice of
the fact to the mortgagee by letter addressed
by mail to his latest known place of abode.
(4) The registrar shall endorse on the
duplicate certificate of title and also on the
mortgage whenever those instruments are
produced to him, the several particulars to be
endorsed upon each of such instruments
respectively.
(5) After payment as aforesaid of any
mortgage money and interest, the mortgagee
shall not recover any further sum in respect
of such mortgage than the amount so paid.
R.S., c. 162, s. 103.

**104.** (1) Mortgages, encumbrances and
leases of land for which a certificate of title
has been granted may be transferred by a
transfer executed in Form S.
(2) The transfer shall be registered in the
same manner as mortgages, encumbrances and
leases are registered.
(3) Transferees have priority according to
the time of registration. R.S., c. 162, s. 104.

**105.** (1) Any mortgagee may transfer a
of the sum secured by the mortgage by a
executed in Form T, and the part so
continues to be secured by the
mortgage, and may be given priority over the
remaining part or may be deferred, or may
continue to rank equally with it under the
security of the original mortgage, as stated in
the transfer.
(2) The registrar shall enter on the certifi
cate of title a memorandum of the amount of
the mortgage so transferred, the name of the
transferee, and how the sum so transferred is
to rank, and shall notify the mortgagor of the
facts. R.S., c. 162, s. 105.

**106.** Upon the registration of a transfer of
any mortgage, encumbrance or lease, the
estate or interest of the transferor, as set forth
in such instrument, with all rights, powers
and privileges thereto belonging or apper
taining, passes to the transferee, and such
transferee thereupon becomes subject to and
liable for all and every one of the requirements
and liabilities to which he would have been
subject and liable if named in such instrument.
R.S., c. 162, s. 106.

**107.** (1) By virtue of every such transfer
the right to sue upon any mortgage or other
instrument, and to recover any debt, sum of
money, annuity or damages thereunder, and
all interest at the time of such transfer in any
such debt, sum of money, annuity or damages,
shall be transferred so as to vest the same in
law in the transferee thereof.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) prevents the
court from giving effect to any trusts affecting
the said debt, sum of money, annuity or
damages, in case the said transferee holds the
same as trustee for any other person. R.S., c.
162, s. 107.

**108.** In every mortgage there shall be
implied against the mortgagor remaining in
possession, a covenant that he will repair and
keep in repair all buildings or other improve
ments erected and made upon the land, and
that the mortgagee may at all convenient
times, until the mortgage is redeemed, be at
liberty, with or without surveyors or others,
to enter into or upon the land to view and
inspect the state of repair of the buildings or
improvements. R.S., c. 162, s. 108.

**109.** (1) Whenever, in a mortgage made
under this Act, the form of words in column
one of Form U, and distinguished by any
number therein, are used, such mortgage shall
be taken to have the same effect, and be
construed as if there had been inserted therein
the form of words contained in column two of
the said Form, and distinguished by the same
number ; but it is not necessary in any such
mortgage to insert any such number.
(2) Every such form shall be deemed a
covenant by the covenantor with the cove-
nantee and his transferees, binding the former
and his heirs, executors, administrators and
transferees; and there may be introduced into
or annexed to any of the forms in the first
column any expressed exceptions from the
forms or expressed qualifications thereof
respectively, and the like exceptions or
qualifications shall be taken to be made from
or in the corresponding forms in the second
column. R.S., c. 162, s. 109.

## POWERS OF ATTORNEY

**110.** (1) The owner of any land may
authorize and appoint any person to act for
him or on his behalf with respect to the
transfer or other dealing with such land or
with any part thereof, in accordance with this
Act, by executing a power of attorney in
Form V, or as near thereto as circumstances
permit, or in any form heretofore in use for
the like purpose in which the land is not
specifically mentioned and described, but is
mentioned and referred to in general terms,
any of which forms of power of attorney the
registrar shall register.
(2) If the land referred to in any form of
power of attorney is specifically and properly
described, the registrar shall make a memo
upon the certificate of title and upon
the duplicate certificate of the particulars
therein contained and of the time of its
(3) Tjmij such power of attorney in which
, , . , , ... .. .
tne land referred to is so specifically described
is revoked by a revocation in Form W, the
right of the owner to transfer or to otherwise
deal with the land is suspended.
(4) The execution or registration of a
general power of attorney does not in any
way affect the right of the owner to transfer
or otherwise deal with his land. R.S., c. 162,
s. 110.
\\l. (1) The registrar is hereby empowered
to rec n i ze f r it
g &amp;gt; tne purpose for which was
executed, in so far as it concerns any land in
his district belonging to the person by whom
it is executed, any power of attorney that is
in the general form referred to in section 110
and has heretofore been or hereafter is
deposited, filed or registered in any land
titles office in any registration district of the
Territories.
(2) Where an original power of attorney in
forin mentioned in section 110 has
heretofore been or is hereafter deposited, filed
or registered in one land titles office, a copy
thereof, certified as such by the registrar in
whose office it is of record, may be accepted
by any other registrar in lieu of the original,
and be recognized by him for the purpose for
which the original power of attorney was
executed, in so far as it affects any land in
the district of the last mentioned registrar
belonging to the person who executed it. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 111.

**112.** (1) The registrar shall keep a book in
convenient form in which shall be entered
according to the respective dates of receipt in
his office, a record of all powers of attorney
or duly certified copies of powers of attorney,
deposited, filed, or received in his office.
(2) The books mentioned in subsection (1)
shall be kept in alphabetical order, so as to
show the names of all persons whose lands are
or are intended to be affected by such powers,
and the day, hour and minute of their receipt
by the registrar. R.S., c. 162, s. 112.

**113.** (1) Any such power of attorney may
revoked by a revocation in Form W.
(2) The registrar shall not give effect to
any transfer or other instrument, signed
pursuant to any power of attorney after the
registration of a revocation of such power,
unless under any registration abstract out
standing at the time. R.S., c. 162, s. 113.

## TRANSMISSION

**114.** (1) Whenever the owner of any land,
for which a certificate of title has been
granted, dies, such land, subject to the
provisions of this Act, vests in the personal
representative of the deceased owner.
(2) The personal representative shall, before
dealing with such land, make application in
writing in Form DD to the registrar to be
registered as owner of such land in his
representative capacity and such application
shall be verified by affidavit of the applicant
or someone on his behalf in Form G.
(3) The applicant shall produce to the
registrar, at the time of making his application,
the duplicate certificate, the probate of the
will of the deceased owner or letters of
administration or the order of the court
authorizing him to administer the estate of
the deceased owner, or a copy certified by the
court, of the said probate, letters of adminis
tration, or order, as the case may be; and
thereupon the registrar shall enter a memo
randum of the application upon the certificate
of title.
(4) For the purposes of this Act the probate
of a will granted by the proper court of any
province of Canada or of the United Kingdom,
or an exemplification thereof is sufficient.
R.S., c. 162, s. 114.

**115.** (1) Upon such memorandum being
made, the executor or administrator, as the
case may be, shall be deemed to be the owner
of the land.
(2) The registrar shall note the fact of the
registration by a memorandum under his

**117.** The duplicate certificate of the title
issued to the deceased owner at the time of
the making of the application shall be
delivered up to be cancelled if not proved to
have been lost or destroyed, and the registrar
shall grant to the executor or administrator
as such a new certificate of title, and issue to
him a duplicate certificate. R.S., c. 162, s. 117.

**118.** If the certificate of title for the land
has not been granted to the deceased owner,
the personal representative, before being
entitled to be registered under sections 114 to
117, shall bring the land under this Act in the
ordinary way. R.S., c. 162, s. 118.

**119.** Whenever any mortgage, encum
brance or lease affecting land, for which a
certificate of title has been granted, is
transmitted in consequence of the will or
intestacy of the owner thereof, the probate of
the will of the deceased owner, or letters of
administration, or the order of the court
authorizing a person as aforesaid to administer
the estate of the deceased owner, or an office
copy of the said probate, letters of adminis
tration, or order, as the case may be,
accompanied by an application in writing
from the executor or administrator, or such
other person as aforesaid, claiming to be
registered as owner in respect of such estate
or interest, shall be produced to the registrar,
who shall thereupon make a memorandum
upon the certificate of title and upon the
duplicate thereof of the date of the will and
of the probate, or of the letters of administra
tion, or order of the court as aforesaid, the
date, hour and minute of the production of
the same to him, and of such other particulars
as he deems necessary. R.S., e. 162, s. 119.

**120.** (1) Upon such memorandum being
made, the executor, or administrator, or such
other person, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be the owner of the mortgage,
encumbrance or lease.
(2) The registrar shall note the fact of the
registration by memorandum under his hand
on the letters of administration, probate or
order. R.S., c. 162, s. 120.
12 1. Any person registered in place of a
deceased owner, holds the land in respect of
which he is registered upon the trusts and for
the purposes to which the land is applicable
by this Act or by law, and subject to any
trusts and equities upon which the deceased
owner held the land; but, for the purpose of
any registered dealings with such land, he
shall be deemed to be the absolute and
beneficial owner thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 121.

**122.** Any person beneficially interested in
any such land, may apply to a court or judge
having jurisdiction, to have the land taken
out of the hands of the trustee having charge
by law of such land, and transferred to some
other person or persons ; and the court or
judge, upon reasonable cause being shown,
shall name some suitable person or persons as
owner of the land ; and upon the person or
persons so named accepting the ownership
and giving approved security for the due
fulfilment of the trusts, the court or a judge
may order the registrar to cancel the certificate
of title to the trustee, and to grant a new
certificate of title to the person or persons so
named. R.S., c. 162, s. 122.

**123.** The registrar, upon the production of
such order, shall cancel the certificate of title
to the trustee after making thereon and upon
the duplicate thereof a memorandum of the
appointment by order of the court or judge
of such person or persons as owners, and shall
grant a new certificate of title to such new
trustee and issue to him a duplicate certificate
of title. R.S., c. 162, s. 123.

**124.** (1) The bishop of any church, or any
trustees for any church, or any congregation
of any church, holding land for the purposes
of such church or congregation shall respec
tively, with regard to such land and any
dealings therewith, be deemed to be a body
corporate and politic ; and land so held
devolves respectively upon the successor in
office of such bishop or upon the successors in
of such trustees duly appointed in
by law or by such church or
prescribed.
(2) The facts necessary to show due appoint
ment of such successors in office may, for
purposes of registration, be proved by statu
tory declaration.
(3) Such bishop or trustees and their
successors in office shall hold such land upon
the trusts and for the purposes to which it is
legally applicable ; but for the purposes of
any registered dealings with such land he or
they, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
be the absolute and beneficial owner or owners
thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 124.

## EXECUTIONS

**125.** (1) The sheriff, or other duly qualified
officer, after the delivery to him of any
execution or other writ then in force affecting
land, if a copy of such writ has not already
been delivered or transmitted to the registrar,
shall, on payment to him of fifty cents by the
execution creditor named therein, forthwith
deliver or transmit by registered letter to the
registrar a copy of the writ and of all
endorsements thereon certified under his hand
and seal of office, if any.
(2) No land is bound by any such writ until
the receipt by the registrar for the registration
district in which such land is situated, of a
copy thereof.
(3) From and after the receipt by the
registrar of such copy no certificate of title
shall be granted and no transfer, mortgage,
encumbrance, lease or other instrument
executed by the execution debtor of such
land, is effectual except subject to the rights
of the execution creditor under the writ while
the writ is legally in force.
(4) The registrar, on granting a certificate
of title and on registering any transfer,
mortgage, or other instrument executed by
the execution debtor affecting such lands,
shall by memorandum upon the certificate of
title in the register and on the duplicate
issued by him express that such certificate,
transfer, mortgage, or other instrument is
to such rights.
(5) Every writ ceases to bind or affect land
at the expiration of two years from the date
of the receipt thereof by the registrar of the
district in which the land is situated, unless
before the expiration of such period of two
years a renewal of such writ is filed with the
registrar in the same manner as the original
is required to be filed with him. R.S., c. 162,
s. 125.

**126.** The registrar shall keep a book in
convenient form in which shall be entered
according to the dates when respectively
received a record of all copies of writs received
by him from the sheriff or other officer ; and
such book shall be kept indexed, showing, in
alphabetical order, the names of the persons
whose lands are affected by such writs with
the day and hour and minute of such receipt.
R.S., c. 162, s. 126.

**127.** (1) Upon the satisfaction or with
drawal from his hands of any writ, the sheriff
or other duly qualified officer shall forthwith
transmit to the registrar a certificate under
his official seal, if any, to the effect that such
writ has been satisfied or withdrawn ; and
upon the production and delivery to the
registrar of such certificate, or of a judge s
order, showing the expiration, satisfaction or
withdrawal of the writ as against the whole
or any portion of the land so bound, the
registrar shall make a memorandum upon the
certificate of title to the effect so certified or
shown, if the land has been brought under
the provisions of this Act, and if not brought
under the provisions of this Act, then upon or
opposite to the entry of the writ in the book
to be kept under the provisions of section 126.
(2) Thenceforth such land or portion of
land shall be deemed to be absolutely released
and discharged from the writ. R.S., c. 162,
s. 127.
SHERIFF S SALES

**128.** (1) No sale by a sheriff or other
officer as aforesaid, under process of law, of
any land, for which a certificate of title has
been granted, is of any effect until the sale
has been confirmed by the court or a judge.
the registrar, upon the production to him
of the transfer of the land in Form X, with
of the due execution thereof, and with
an order of the confirmation of the sale
upon the transfer or attached
thereto, shall, after the expiration of four
weeks after receiving the same, unless such
registration is in the meantime stayed by the
order of the court or judge, register the
transfer, cancel the existing certificate of title
wholly, or in part if less than the whole of
the land comprised therein is sold, grant a
certificate of title to the transferee, and issue
to him a duplicate in the prescribed form.
(3) In case the registration has been so
stayed, the registration shall not be made
except according to the order and direction of
the court or judge. R.S., c. 162, s. 128.

**129.** (1) A transfer of such land so sold
under process of law or for arrears of taxes as
hereinafter provided shall be registered within
a period of two years of the date of the order
of confirmation.
(2) Such transfer, if not registered within
the period referred to in subsection (1), ceases
to be valid as against the owner of the land
so sold, and any person or persons claiming
by, from or through him. R.S., c. 162, s. 129.

**130.** (1) The application for confirmation
of a sale of such land so made under any
process of law, may be made by the sheriff or
other officer making the sale, or by any
person interested in the sale, on notice to the
owner, unless the judge to whom the applica
tion is made, dispenses with such notice.
(2) If the sale is confirmed the costs of
confirmation shall be borne and paid out of
the purchase money, or as the judge directs.
(3) In case the sale is not confirmed, the
purchase money paid by him shall be refunded
to the purchaser, and the judge may make
order as to the costs of all parties to the
sale and of the application for its confirmation
as he thinks just. R.S., c. 162, s. 130.

## SALE FOR TAXES

**131.** (i) When any land for which a
certificate of title has been granted, is sold
for taxes, the purchaser may at any time after
the sale lodge a caveat against the transfer of
the land.
(2) Upon the completion of the time allowed
L i r j j ^.u
by law tor redemption, and upon the
production of the transfer of the land in the
prescribed form for tax sales in Form X, with
proof of the due execution thereof by the
proper officer, and a judge s order confirming
such sale, the registrar shall, after the
expiration of four weeks from the delivery to
him of the transfer and judge s order of
confirmation, register the transferee as abso
lute owner of the land so sold, and shall
cancel the certificate of title in whole or in
part, as the case requires, grant a new
certificate of title to the transferee, and shall
issue to the purchaser a duplicate certificate,
unless the registration has in the meantime
been stopped by order of a judge.
(3) The procedure for obtaining a judge s
order confirming such sale shall be the same
as hereinbefore provided in the case of a
sheriff s sale. R.S., c. 162, s. 131.

## CAVEATS

**132.** Any person claiming to be interested
in any land under any will, settlement or
trust deed, or under any instrument of transfer
or transmission, or under any unregistered
instrument, or under an execution, where the
execution creditor seeks to affect land in
which the execution debtor is interested
beneficially but the title to which is registered
in the name of some other person, or otherwise,
may lodge a caveat with the registrar to the
effect that no registration of any transfer or
other instrument affecting the said land shall
be made, and that no certificate of title
therefor shall be granted, until such caveat
has been withdrawn or has lapsed as here
inafter provided, unless such instrument or
certificate of title is expressed to be subject to
the claim of the caveator as stated in such
R.S., c. 162, s. 132.

**133.** A caveat shall be in Form Y, and
shall be verified by the oath of the caveator
or his agent, and shall contain an address
within the registration district at which notices
may be served. R.S., c. 162, s. 133.

**134.** (1) Upon the receipt of a caveat, the
registrar shall enter the caveat in the day
book, and shall make a memorandum thereof
upon the certificate of title of the land
affected by such caveat and shall forthwith
send a notice of the caveat through the post
office or otherwise to the person against whose
title the caveat has been lodged.
(2) In the case of a caveat before registration
of a title under this Act the registrar shall on
receipt thereof enter the caveat in the day
book. R.S., c. 162, s. 134.

**135.** So long as any caveat remains in
force the registrar shall not enter in the
register any memorandum of any transfer or
other instrument purporting to transfer,
encumber, or otherwise deal with or affect the
land in respect to which such caveat is lodged
except subject to the claim of the caveator.
R.S., c. 162, s. 135.

**136.** The owner or other person claiming
such land may, by summons, call upon the
caveator to attend before a judge to show
cause why the caveat should not be withdrawn ;
and the judge may, upon proof that such last-
mentioned person has been summoned, and
upon such evidence as the judge requires,
make such order in the premises as to the said
judge seems fit. R.S., c. 162, s. 136.
\37 . (1) Unless proper proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction have been
taken to establish the caveator s title to the
estate or interest specified in the caveat, and
an injunction or order has been granted
restraining the registrar from granting a
certificate of title or otherwise dealing with
the land, a caveat may be disposed of by the
as lapsed after the expiration of
months from the day on which a notice
in Form EE was served on the caveator or
to him by registered mail to the address
stated in his caveat.
(2) The service or mailing of the notice
referred to in subsection (1) shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the registrar. R.S., c. 162,
s. 137.
IBS. The caveator may, by notice in
writing to the registrar, withdraw his caveat
at any time ; but notwithstanding such
withdrawal the court or judge may order the
payment by the caveator of the costs of the
caveatee incurred prior to such withdrawal.
R.S., c. 162, s. 138.

**139.** (1) A memorandum shall be made by
the registrar, upon the certificate of title and
upon the duplicate certificate, of the with
drawal, lapse or removal of any caveat or of
any order made by the court or a judge in
connection therewith.
(2) After such withdrawal, lapse or removal
it is not lawful for the same person, or for
anyone on his behalf, to lodge a further
caveat in relation to the same matter, unless
by leave of the registrar or a judge. R.S., c.
162, s. 139.

**140.** (1) Any person lodging or continuing
any caveat wrongfully and without reasonable
cause, is liable to make compensation to any
person who has sustained damage thereby.
(2) Such compensation, with costs, may be
recovered by proceedings at law if the caveator
has withdrawn such caveat and no proceedings
have been taken by the caveatee, as herein
provided.
(3) If proceedings have been taken by the
caveatee, then the compensation and costs
shall be determined by the court or judge
acting in the same proceedings. R.S., c. 162,
s. 140.

## ATTESTATION OF INSTRUMENTS
14 1. Every instrument executed within the
limits of the Territories, except instruments
under the seal of any corporation, caveats,
of a court or judge, executions, or
of any judicial proceedings, attest
as such, requiring to be registered under
this Act, shall be witnessed by one person who
sign his name to the instrument as a
witness, and shall appear before the inspector,
or the registrar or deputy registrar of the
registration district in which the land is
situated, or before a judge, notary public,
commissioner for taking affidavits, or a justice
of the peace in or for the Territories, and
make an affidavit in Form Z. R.S., c. 162,
s. 141.

**142.** Every instrument, executed outside
the limits of the Territories, except grants
from the Crown, orders in council, instruments
under the seal of any corporation, or caveats
required to be registered under this Act, shall
be witnessed by one person who shall sign his
name to the instrument as a witness, and shall
appear and make an affidavit in Form Z,
before one of the following persons :
  * (_a_) if made in any province of Canada,
before a judge of any court of record, any
commissioner authorized to take affidavits
in such province for use in any court of
record in the Territories, or before any
notary public under his official seal ;
(6) if made in Great Britain or Ireland
before a judge of the Supreme Court of
Judicature in England or Ireland, or a
judge of the Court of Sessions or of the
Judiciary Court in Scotland, or a judge of
any of the county courts within his district,
or the mayor of any city or incorporated
town under the common seal of such city or
town, or before any commissioner in Great
Britain or Ireland, authorized to take
affidavits therein, for use in any court of
record in the Territories, or a notary public
under his official seal ;
  * (_c_) if made in any part of the Common
wealth and Dependent Territories, other
than Canada, before a judge of any court
of record, the mayor of any city or
incorporated town under the common seal
of such city or town, or a notary public
under his official seal ; or
  * (_d_) if made in any foreign country, before
the mayor of any city or incorporated town,
under the common seal of any such city or
town, or before the British consul, vice-
consul or consular agent residing therein,
or before a judge of a court of record, or a
notary public under his official seal. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 142.

## EJECTMENT

**143.** (1) No action of ejectment or other
action for the recovery of any land for which
a certificate of title has been granted lies or
shall be sustained against the owner thereof
under this Act, except in the case of
  * (_a_) a mortgagee as against a mortgagor in
default ;
(6) an encumbrancee as against an encum
brancer in default ;
  * (_c_) a lessor as against a lessee in default ;
  * (_d_) a person deprived of any land by fraud
as against the owner of such land through
fraud, or as against a person deriving
otherwise than as a transferee bona fide for
value, from or through such owner through
fraud ;
  * (_e_) a person deprived of or claiming any
land included in any grant or certificate of
title of other land by misdescription of such
other land or of its boundaries, as against
the owner of such other land ; or
  * (_f_) an owner claiming under an instrument
of title prior in date of registration under
this Act, in any case in which two or more
grants, or two or more certificates of title,
or a grant and certificate of title, are
registered under this Act in respect to the
same land.
(2) In any case, other than as aforesaid, the
production of the certificate of title or a
certified copy thereof is an absolute bar and
estoppel to any such action against the person
named in such certificate of title as owner or
lessee of the land therein described. R.S., c.
162, s. 143.

## DAMAGES
144 ^ After a certificate of title has been
granted for any land, any person deprived of
such land in consequence of fraud, or by the
registration of any other person as owner of
such land, or in consequence of any fraud,
error, omission or misdescription in any
certificate of title or in any memorandum
thereon or the duplicate thereof, or otherwise,
may,
  * (_a_) if the land has been included in two or
more grants from the Crown, and
  * (_b_) in any other case,
bring and prosecute an action at law for the
recovery of damages against the person upon
whose application the erroneous registration
was made, or who acquired title to the land
in question through such fraud, error, omission
or misdescription.
(2) Except in the case of fraud, or of error
occasioned by any omission, misrepresentation
or misdescription in the application of such
person to be registered as owner of such land,
or in any instrument executed by him, such
person, upon a transfer of such land bona fide
for value, ceases to be liable for the payment
of any damages that but for the transfer
might have been recovered from him under
the provisions hereinbefore contained.
(3) Such damages, with costs, may, in the
last-mentioned case, be recovered out of the
assurance fund herein provided for, by action
against the registrar as nominal defendant.
R.S., c. 162, s. 144.

**145.** Except in the case of misdescription
of the land or its boundaries, anything in this
Act to the contrary notwithstanding, no bona
fide purchaser or mortgagee under this Act of
land for valuable consideration is subject to
action for recovery of damages as aforesaid,
or to action of ejectment, or to deprivation of
land in respect of which he is registered as
owner, on the ground that his transferor or
mortgagor has been registered as owner
through fraud or error, or has derived from or
through a person registered as owner through
fraud or error. R.S., c. 162, s. 145.

**146.** (1) Where the person against whom
* ne act io n fo r damages is directed to be
brought as aforesaid, is dead, or cannot be
found within the Territories, an action for
damages may be brought against the registrar
as nominal defendant, for the purpose of
recovering the amount of the said damages
and costs against the said assurance fund.
(2) In any such case if final judgment is
recovered, and also in any case in which
damages are awarded in any action as
aforesaid, and the sheriff makes a return of
nulla bona, or certifies that any portion
thereof, with costs awarded, cannot be recov
ered from such person, the Minister of Finance
upon receipt of a certificate of the judge
before whom the action was tried, shall pay
the amount of such damages and costs as are
awarded, or the unrecovered balance thereof,
as the case may be, and shall charge the same
to the account of the assurance fund. R.S., c.
162, s. 146.

**147.** (1) Any person sustaining loss or
damage through any omission, mistake or
misfeasance of the inspector, or a registrar, or
any of his officers or clerks, in the execution
of their respective duties under this Act, and
any person deprived of any land, by the
registration of any other person as owner
thereof, or by any error, omission or misde-
scription in any certificate of title, or in any
memorandum upon the certificate or upon
the duplicate certificate thereof, and who, by
this Act, is barred from bringing an action of
ejectment or other action for the recovery of
the land, may, in any case in which remedy
by action for recovery of damages, herein
before provided, is barred, bring an action
against the registrar as nominal defendant,
for the recovery of damages.
(2) Where the plaintiff recovers final judg-
ment against such nominal defendant, the
judge before whom such action is tried shall
certify to the fact of such judgment and the
amount of the damages and costs recovered,
and the Minister of Finance shall pay the
amount thereof out of the assurance fund to
person entitled on production of an
or certified copy of the
rendered.
(3) Notice in writing of every such action,
and the cause thereof, shall be served upon
the Attorney General of Canada, and also
upon the registrar, at least three calendar
months before the commencement of such
action. R.S., c. 162, s. 147.

**148.** Where in any such action, judgment
is given against the plaintiff, or the plaintiff
discontinues or becomes non-suited, he is
liable to pay the full costs of defending the
action; and these costs, when taxed, shall be
levied in the name of the nominal defendant,
by the like process of execution as in ordinary
civil cases. R.S., c. 162, s. 148.

**149.** No action for recovery of damages
sustained through deprivation of land, lies or
shall be sustained against the registrar, or
against the assurance fund, unless it is
commenced within the period of six years
from the date of such deprivation, except that
any person under the disability of infancy,
lunacy or unsoundness of mind, may bring
the action within six years from the date on
which the disability ceases. R.S., c. 162, s. 149.

**150.** The plaintiff in any such action at
whatever time it is brought, and the plaintiff
in any action for the recovery of land, shall
be non-suited in any case in which it appears
to the satisfaction of the judge before whom
such action is tried, that the plaintiff or the
person through or under whom he claims title
had notice by personal service, or otherwise
was aware of delay, and wilfully or collusively
omitted to lodge a caveat or allowed the
caveat to lapse. R.S., c. 162, s. 150.

**151.** (1) Whenever any amount has been
paid out of the assurance fund on account of
any person, the amount may be recovered
from him, or if dead, from his estate, by
action against his personal representatives, in
the name of the registrar.
(2) Upon such suit, a certificate signed by
the Minister of Finance of the payment out
of the assurance fund is sufficient proof of
such debt. R.S., c. 162, s. 151.

**152.** (1) Whenever any amount has been
paid out of the assurance fund on account of
any person who has absconded, or who cannot
be found within the Territories, and who has
left any real or personal estate within the
Territories, upon the application of the
registrar, and upon the production of a
certificate signed by the Minister of Finance
that the amount has been paid in satisfaction
of a judgment against the registrar as nominal
defendant, and on proof of service of the writ
in any of the modes provided by the ordinary
procedure in the Territories, a judge may
allow the registrar to sign judgment against
such person forthwith for the amount so paid
out of the assurance fund, together with the
costs of the application.
(2) Such judgment is final subject only to
the right to have such judgment opened up
as may be provided in relation to ordinary
procedure in the Territories in cases of
judgment by default.
(3) The judgment shall be signed in like
manner as a final judgment by default in an
adverse suit, and execution may issue immedi
ately.
(4) Where the person has not left real or
personal estate within the Territories, suffi
cient to satisfy the amount for which execution
has issued as aforesaid, the registrar may
recover such amount, or the unrecovered
balance thereof, by information against such
person at any time thereafter in the Exchequer
Court of Canada at the suit of the Attorney
General of Canada. R.S., c. 162, s. 152.

## PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE JUDGE

**153.** (1) Any person who is dissatisfied
with any act, omission, refusal, decision,
direction or order of a registrar, may require
the registrar to set forth, in writing under his
hand, the grounds of such act, omission,
refusal, decision, direction or order, and such
person may then apply to the judge by
petition, setting forth the grounds of his
dissatisfaction.
(2) The judge having caused the registrar
be served with a copy of the petition, has
to hear the petition, and to make
order in the premises, and as to the costs
of the parties appearing upon the petition, as
the circumstances of the case require. R.S., c:
162, s. 153.

**154.** (1) The registrar may,
  * (_a_) whenever a question arises with regard
to the performance of any duty, or the
exercise of any function by this Act
conferred or imposed upon him ;
(6) whenever in the exercise of any duty of
a registrar, a question arises as to the true
construction or legal validity or effect of
any instrument, or as to the persons entitled,
or as to the extent or nature of the estate,
right or interest, power or authority of any
person or class of persons ;
  * (_c_) whenever a question arises as to the
mode in which any entry or memorandum
ought to be made in the day-book, or
register, or upon any certificate of title or
duplicate thereof; and
  * (_d_) whenever a question arises as to any
doubtful or uncertain right or interest
stated, or claimed to be dealt with by a
registrar ;
refer the question in Form AA to the judge.
(2) The judge may, when a question
mentioned in subsection (1) is referred to him,
allow any of the parties interested to appear
before him and summon any other of such
persons to appear and show cause in relation
thereto either personally or by counsel,
attorney-at-law, or advocate.
(3) The judge, having regard to the persons
appearing before him, whether summoned or
not, shall decide the question or direct any
proceedings to be instituted for that purpose,
and direct the particular form of entry or
memorandum to be made as under the
circumstances appears to be just. R.S., c. 162,
s. 154.

**155.** (1) If, under any of the provisions of
this Act, the registrar requires a duplicate
certificate for the purpose of making any
memorandum thereon, or for the purpose of
if it appears to the satisfaction of the
  * (_a_) that any duplicate certificate or other
instrument has been issued in error, or
contains any misdescription of land or
boundaries;
  * (_fe_) that any entry, memorandum or
endorsement has been made on or omitted
from any duplicate certificate or other
instrument in error ;
  * (_c_) that any such duplicate certificate,
instrument, entry, memorandum or endorse
ment has been fraudulently or wrongfully
obtained ; or
  * (_d_) that any such duplicate certificate or
instrument is fraudulently or wrongfully
retained ;
he may by written demand in Form BB to be
served upon such person, or to be mailed to
his latest known post office address within
the Territories, require the person to whom
such duplicate certificate or instrument has
been so issued, or by whom it has been so
obtained or is retained, to deliver it up, for
the purpose of being cancelled, corrected or
completed, as the case requires.
(2) In case such person refuses or neglects
to comply with such requisition, or cannot be
found, the registrar may apply to a judge to
issue a summons for such person to appear
before him and show cause why such duplicate
certificate or other instrument should not be
delivered up to be cancelled, corrected or
completed as aforesaid.
(3) If such person, when served with the
summons personally or in the mode directed
in such summons, neglects or refuses to attend
before the judge at the time therein appointed,
the judge may issue a warrant authorizing
and directing the person so summoned to be
apprehended and brought before him for
examination. R.S., c. 162, s. 155.

**156.** (1) Upon the appearance before him
of any person summoned or brought up by
virtue of a warrant as aforesaid, the judge
may examine such person upon oath, and in
case it appears right so to do, may order such
person to deliver up the duplicate certificate
or other instrument as aforesaid.
(2) Upon refusal or neglect by such person
pursuant to the order, or to be
under oath, or to be examined, or to
answer any question concerning the matter
after being sworn, the judge may commit such
person to the nearest common gaol for any
period not exceeding six months, unless the
duplicate certificate or other instrument is
sooner delivered up, or sufficient explanation
is made why the same cannot be done.
(3) J n sucn case&amp;gt; Qr j n cage suc fr person
j j , . ,
absconded so that summons cannot be served
upon him as hereinbefore directed, or in case
a period of three months from the time of
mailing the demand in Form BB to such
person has elapsed before the duplicate
certificate or other instrument has been
returned to the registrar, the judge may direct
the registrar to cancel, or correct, or complete
the duplicate certificate or other instrument
in his possession, or any memorandum thereon
relating to the land, and to substitute and
issue, if necessary, a duplicate certificate or
other instrument, or make such memorandum
as the circumstances of the case require, and
the registrar shall obey such order. R.S., c.
162, s. 156.

**157.** In any proceeding respecting land or
in respect of any transaction or contract
relating thereto, or in respect of any instru
ment, caveat, memorandum or entry affecting
land, the judge, by decree or order, may direct
the registrar to cancel, correct, substitute or
issue any duplicate certificate, or make any
memorandum or entry thereon or on the
certificate of title, and otherwise to do every
act necessary to give effect to the decree or
order. R.S., c. 162, s. 157.

## ASSURANCE FUND AND FEES

**158.** (1) Before the registrar performs any
^ fay ^ performed under any O f
the provisions of this Act he shall, except as
herein otherwise provided, demand and
receive the proper fee or fees therefor as fixed
and settled by tariff made from time to time
by the Governor in Council, and demand and
receive for the assurance fund upon the
registration of every grant of encumbered
land, and upon every absolute transfer of
land after the issue of the first certificate of
title therefor, where the land was not
at the time of registering the
grant, one-fifth of one per cent of the value
of the land transferred if such value amounts
to, or is less than, five thousand dollars, and
one-tenth of one per cent on the additional
value if such value exceeds five thousand
dollars.
(2) Upon every subsequent transfer he shall
demand and receive upon the increase of
value since the granting of the last certificate
of title one-fifth of one per cent of the increase
up to five thousand dollars, and one-tenth of
one per cent of any excess over five thousand
dollars. R.S., c. 162, s. 158.

**159.** (1) The value shall be ascertained by
the oath or affirmation of the applicant,
owner or person acquiring such land, or of
such other person as the registrar believes to
be acquainted with the value of the land, and
whose oath or affirmation the registrar is
willing to accept.
(2) If the registrar is not satisfied as to the
correctness of the value so sworn to or
affirmed, he may require such applicant,
owner or person acquiring the land to produce
a certificate of the value, under the hand of
a sworn valuator appointed by a judge, which
certificate shall be received as conclusive
evidence of the value for the purpose
aforesaid. R.S., c. 162, s. 159.

**160.** Each registrar shall keep a correct
account of all sums of money received by him
in accordance with this Act, and shall pay the
same to the Receiver General at such times
and in such manner as are directed by the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 162, s. 160 ; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 105.
16 1. The assurance fund now existing shall
be continued as the assurance fund, and the
Minister of Finance shall enhance such fund
by investing from time to time in Canadian
Government securities for the purpose of an
assurance fund, all moneys so received and
returned by all the registrars, together with
all interest and profits accruing on the funds
so enhanced. R.S., c. 162, s. 161.

**162.** The assurance fund is not, under any
liable for compensation for any
damage or deprivation occasioned by
  * (_a_) the breach by the owner of any trust,
whether expressed, implied or constructive,
(6) the same land having been included in
two or more grants from the Crown, or
  * (_c_) any land having been included in the
same certificate of title with other land,
through misdescription of the boundaries
or parcels of any land,
unless it is proved that the person liable for
compensation and damages is dead, or has
absconded from the Territories, or has been
adjudged insolvent, or the sheriff has certified
that he is not able to realize the full amount
and costs awarded in any action for such
compensation ; and the assurance fund is
liable for such amounts only as the sheriff
fails to recover from the person liable as
aforesaid. R.S., c. 162, s. 162.

## CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE OF TITLE

**163.** (1) Upon the application of an owner
of several parcels of land held under separate
certificates of title, or under one certificate of
title, and the delivery up of the duplicate
certificates therefor to him, the registrar may
cancel the existing certificate or certificates
of title granted, as also the duplicate
certificates so delivered up, and grant to the
owner a single certificate of title for all the
parcels of land, or several certificates of title,
each applying to one or more of the parcels,
in accordance with the application.
(2) Upon each of such respective certificates
of title so granted shall be entered a
memorandum of each and every encumbrance,
lien, charge, mortgage, or other instrument
affecting such parcel or parcels of land, setting
forth the occasion of the cancellation and
referring to the certificate of title so granted.
(3) The registrar shall issue to the applicant
one or more duplicate certificates, as the case
requires. R.S., c. 162, s. 163.

**164.** (1) The registrar, upon cancelling any
certificate of title, either wholly or partially,
pursuant to any transfer, shall grant to the
a certificate of title of the land
in the transfer and issue to the
a duplicate thereof; and the
shall retain every transfer and
duplicate certificate of title; but in
the case of a partially cancelled certificate of
title, the registrar shall return the duplicate
to the transferor after the memorandum
partially cancelling the certificate of title has
been made thereon and upon the certificate
of title in the register.
(2) Whenever required thereto by the owner
of an unsold portion of land in any partially
cancelled certificate of title, or where such a
course appears to the registrar more expedient,
he may grant to such owner a certificate of
title for such portion, of which he is the
owner, upon the delivery of the partially
cancelled duplicate certificate of title to the
registrar, to be cancelled and retained. R.S.,
c. 162, s. 164.

## LOST OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES OF TITLE

**165.** Upon production to the registrar of
satisfactory proof by statutory declaration of
the person to whom a duplicate certificate
has been issued, or some one having knowledge
of the facts, of the accidental loss or
destruction of the duplicate certificate so
issued, the registrar may, after having entered
in the register the facts so proven, issue a
fresh duplicate certificate in lieu of the one
so lost or destroyed, noting upon the duplicate
certificate why it is so issued, but, unless the
registrar is satisfied as to the loss or destruction
of the duplicate certificate so issued, and that
such notice is unnecessary, no such fresh
duplicate certificate shall be issued until the
registrar has for four weeks
  * (_a_) published a notice of his intention to
issue such fresh certificate in the newspaper
published nearest to the land described in
the register, or, if more newspapers than
one are published in the same locality, then
in one of such newspapers, and
  * (_b_) posted up such notice in a conspicuous
place in the land titles office. R.S., c. 162,
s. 165.
INFANTS, IDIOTS, LUNATICS

**166.** (1) Whenever any person, who, if not
under disability might have made any
application, given any consent, done any act,
or been party to any proceeding under this
Act, is an infant, idiot or lunatic, the guardian
or committee of the estate, respectively, of
such person may make such application, give
such consent, do such act, or be party to such
proceeding as such person if free from
disability might have made, given, done or
been party to, and shall otherwise represent
such person for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Whenever there is no guardian or
committee of the estate of any such person
aforesaid, being an infant, idiot or lunatic, or
whenever any person, the committee of whose
estate if he were an idiot or lunatic would be
authorized to act for and represent such
person under this Act, is of unsound mind
and incapable of managing his affairs but has
not been found an idiot or lunatic under
inquisition, a court or judge may appoint a
guardian of such person for the purpose of
any proceedings under this Act, and may
from time to time change such guardian.
(3) The court, or a judge, may, when
deemed expedient, appoint a person to act as
the next friend of a married woman for the
purpose of any proceeding under this Act,
and may from time to time remove or change
such next friend. R.S., c. 162, s. 166.

**167.** The judge, on application for that
purpose, on behalf of any person who is under
the disability of infancy, lunacy, unsoundness
of mind or absence from the Territories, may,
by order directed to the registrar, prohibit the
transfer of or any dealing with land belonging
to such person. R.S., c. 162, s. 167.

## NOTICE

**168.** (1) No person contracting or dealing
with or taking or proposing to take a transfer,
mortgage, encumbrance or lease from the
owner of any land for which a certificate of
title has been granted, is, except in case of
fraud by such person, bound or concerned to
inquire into or ascertain the circumstances in
or the consideration for which the owner or
previous owner of the land is or was
or to see to the application of the
money or of any part thereof, nor is
affected by notice direct, implied or
of any trust or unregistered
interest in the land, any rule of law or equity
to the contrary notwithstanding.
(2) The knowledge that any trust or
unregistered interest is in existence shall not
of itself be imputed as fraud. R.S., c. 162,
s. 168.

## JOINT OWNERSHIP

**169.** (1) Upon the transfer to two or more
persons as joint owners, of any land, for which
a certificate of title has been granted, to be
held by them as trustees, it is lawful for the
transferor to insert in the transfer or other
instrument the words "No survivorship"; and
the registrar shall, in such case, include such
words in the duplicate certificate issued to
such owners pursuant to the transfer and in
the certificate of title.
(2) Any two or more persons so registered
as joint owners of any land held by them as
trustees may, by writing under their hand,
authorize the registrar to enter the words "No
survivorship" upon the duplicate certificate,
and also upon the certificate of title.
(3) In either case aforesaid, after such entry
has been made and signed by the registrar, it
is not lawful for any less number of joint
owners than the number so entered to transfer
or otherwise deal with the land, without
obtaining the sanction of the court or of a
judge, by an order on motion or petition.
R.S., c. 162, s. 169.

**170.** (1) Before making any order as afore
said, the court or judge shall, if it seems
requisite, cause notice of intention of making
such order to be properly advertised, and in
such case appoint a period of time within
which any person interested may show cause
why the order should not be made ; and
thereupon the court or judge may order the
any existing owner or owners, or may make
order in the premises as the court or a
thinks just, for the protection of the
beneficially interested in the land or
the proceeds thereof.
(2) Upon such order being deposited with
the registrar, he shall make a memorandum
thereof upon the certificate of title and upon
the duplicate certificate, when the same is
produced to him ; and thereupon the person
or persons named in the order shall be the
owner or owners of the land. R.S., c. 162,
s. 170.

## SUBMISSION TO JUDGE

**171.** Whenever any matter is, under this
Act, submitted to a judge by a registrar or by
any other person or authority and the judge
deems it advisable that parties interested
should be notified of the time and place when
and where a hearing of the matter so
submitted should be held, and no special
provisions are made therefor in this Act, or if
there are any such special provisions and the
judge is of opinion that the notice required
thereby to be given is not sufficient, he may
direct
  * (_a_) that notice of such time and place be
given ;
(6) that such notice shall be served person
ally upon such persons as he may direct, or
be left at their usual place of abode ;
  * (_c_) that such notice shall be posted at such
place or places and for such periods as he
may name ;
  * (_d_) that such notice be published in such
newspaper or newspapers as he may desig
nate, and for such time as he may direct;
or
  * (_e_) that such notice may be given in any
one or more, or in all the methods above
specified. R.S., c. 162, s. 171.

**172.** Whenever this Act directs that persons
interested shall be heard or shall receive
notice, and such parties are not within the
jurisdiction or cannot be found so as to be
personally served, the judge may direct that
any party outside the jurisdiction may be
in such manner as he deems
or that publication of notice in
manner as he may direct may be
service. R.S., c. 162, s. 172.

## EVIDENCE AND PROCEDURE

**173.** (1) Every covenant and power
declared to be implied in any instrument by
virtue of this Act may be negatived or
modified by express declaration in the
instrument.
(2) In any action for an alleged breach of
any such implied covenant, the covenant
alleged to be broken may be set forth, and it
is lawful to allege precisely in the same
manner as if the covenant had been expressed
in words in the transfer or other instrument,
any law or practice to the contrary notwith
standing, that the party against whom the
action is brought did so covenant.
(3) Every such implied covenant has the
same force and effect, and shall be enforced
in the same manner as if it had been set out
at length in the transfer or other instrument.
(4) When any transfer or other instrument
in accordance with this Act, is executed by
more parties than one, such covenants as are
by this Act to be implied in instruments of a
like nature, shall be construed to be several
and not to bind the parties jointly. R.S., c.
162, s. 173.

**174.** The owner of any land for which a
certificate of title has been granted, or of any
lease, mortgage or charge affecting the land,
is, on application of any beneficiary or person
interested therein, bound to allow his name
to be used by such beneficiary or person in
any action, suit or proceeding that it may be
necessary or proper to bring or institute in
the name of such owner concerning such land,
lease, mortgage or charge, or for the protection
or benefit of the title vested in such owner, or
of the interest of any such beneficiary or
person, but such owner is, in any case, entitled
to be indemnified in like manner as a trustee
would, before the 1st day of January 1895,
have been entitled to be indemnified in a
case of his name being used in any
action, suit or proceeding in his name
his cestui que trust. R.S., c. 162, s. 174.

**175.** Every certificate of title granted
under this Act is, except
  * (_a_) in case of fraud wherein the owner has
participated or colluded,
(6) as against any person claiming under a
prior certificate of title granted under this
Act in respect of the same land, and
  * (_c_) so far as regards any portion of the
land, by wrong description of boundaries or
parcels included in such certificate of title,
so long as the certificate remains in force
and uncancelled under this Act,
conclusive evidence in all courts as against
Her Majesty and all persons whomsoever,
that the person named therein is entitled to
the land included in the certificate, for the
estate or interest therein specified, subject to
the exceptions and reservations implied under
this Act. R.S., c. 162, s. 175.

**176.** In any suit for specific performance
brought by an owner of any land, for which a
certificate of title has been granted, against a
person who has contracted to purchase the
land, without notice of any fraud or other
circumstances that, according to this Act,
would affect the right of the transferor, the
duplicate certificate of title of the owner is
evidence that the owner has a good and valid
title to the land, for the estate or interest
therein mentioned or described, U.S., c. 162,
s. 176.

**177.** Proceedings under this Act do not
abate and are not suspended by any death,
transmission or change of interest, but in any
such event a judge may make such order for
carrying on, discontinuing or suspending the
proceedings, upon the application of any
person interested, as under the circumstances
he thinks just, and may for such purpose
require the production of such evidence, and
such notices to be given, as he thinks necessary.
R.S., c. 162, s. 177.

**178.** Whenever in any action, suit or other
affecting land, for which a certifi
of title has been granted, it becomes
necessary to determine whether the transferee,
encumbrancee or lessee is a
purchaser or transferee, mortgagee, encum
brancee or lessee for valuable consideration
or not, any person who is a party to the
action, suit or other proceeding may give in
evidence any transfer, mortgage, encum
brance, lease or other instrument affecting
the land in dispute, although the instrument
is not referred to in the certificate of title, or
has been cancelled by the registrar. R.S., c.
162, s. 178.

**179.** Whenever by virtue of this Act a
judge is required or authorized to hold an
inquiry, proof of the matters relevant to the
inquiry may be made before him by affidavit,
but the judge may, whenever he deems it
expedient, require the personal attendance of
any person before him to testify as to the
matter of such inquiry, or of the deponent to
any affidavit to be cross-examined upon his
affidavit. R.S., c. 162, s. 179.

**180.** (1) The judge may issue a summons
under his hand and seal requiring such person
or deponent to appear before him at a time
and place to be specified to testify as to what
he may know concerning the matters in
question, or to be cross-examined as the case
may be.
(2) If such person or deponent fails to
attend at the time and place specified, then
upon due proof under oath that such person
or deponent has been duly served with the
summons and that proper conduct money
according to the tariffs of fees provided for
the attendance of witnesses at trials in civil
causes in the court and the laws in force in
the respective Territories, has been paid or
tendered to him, the judge may issue his
warrant directed to the sheriff of any judicial
district, or, in the Northwest Territories to
any peace officer, directing him to apprehend
such person or deponent and bring him before
the judge for examination and to keep him
in his custody until he is so examined.
(3) The sheriff or such peace officer shall
obey the said warrant according to the tenor
thereof and is entitled to the same fees for
executing such warrant as he would be entitled
to for executing a process issued out of the
said court.
(4) The costs incidental to any such inquiry
are in the discretion of the judge, and shall
be taxed by the clerk of the court in which
the inquiry was held as nearly as may be
according to the tariff provided for civil
causes in the said court.
(5) Judgment shall be signed in such court
for such costs in favour of the party to whom
they are awarded by the judge, and execution
may be issued for the recovery thereof out of
the said court as upon an ordinary judgment
therein. R.S., c. 162, s. 180.

**181.** (1) Whenever any proceeding is taken
under this Act , whether by motion or summons,
or by the filing with or the delivery to the
registrar of a caveat, mechanics lien, or copy
of an execution against lands, or other such
proceeding, and any party to such proceeding
or the person in whose behalf or against whose
interest such caveat, lien, execution or
proceeding has been so filed or delivered is
not a resident in the Territories, a judge may,
upon the application of a party to such
proceeding or interested therein, or affected
by such caveat, lien, execution or proceeding,
grant an order requiring such non-resident to
give security for the costs of the applicant of
such order, in prosecuting or resisting such
proceeding, or in removing or maintaining
such caveat, lien, execution or proceeding.
(2) It may be a term of such order that in
default such proceeding may be deemed
granted or dismissed, or such caveat, lien,
execution or proceeding may be deemed
removed or maintained.
(3) Such order may also provide for a stay
of proceedings.
(4) The practice and procedure for obtaining
order and giving such security shall be
as nearly as may be the same as upon an
application for security for costs in civil causes
in the said court.
(5) The judge may order the costs incident
to such application or order to be taxed and
recovered as is provided for costs in subsections
180(4) and (5). R.S., c. 162, s. 181.

**182.** The court or judge may order costs to
\ j u
be paid by or to any person party to any
proceeding under this Act, but any applicant
under this Act shall be deemed liable prima
facie to pay all costs, charges and expenses
incurred by or in consequence of his applica
tion, except in a case where parties object
whose rights are sufficiently secured without
their appearance, or when any costs, charges
or expenses are incurred unnecessarily or
improperly. R.S., c. 162, s. 182.

**183.** The judge may, by order directed to
the registrar, prohibit the dealing with any
land in any case in which it appears to him
that an error has been made by misdescription
of such land or otherwise in any certificate of
title or other instrument, or may make an
order directed to the registrar for the
prevention of any other improper dealing.
R.S., c. 162, s. 183.

**184.** Any order of the court or a judge
may be enforced in the same manner and by
the same officials and process as orders are
usually enforced by the procedure and practice
of the court, and shall be obeyed by every
registrar and acting registrar when directed to
him. R.S., c. 162, s. 184.
AFFIDAVITS

**185.** (1) Affidavits for use in applications
to register title, or in any matter other than
the execution of instruments, may be made
before any person authorized to take affidavits
for use in the court.
(2) In all matters before the court or a
viva voce evidence as may be ordered by the
or a judge. R.S., c. 162, s. 185.

**186.** Affidavits are subject to the practice
governing affidavits in the court. R.S., c. 162,
s. 186.

## APPEAL

**187.** (1) An appeal lies by the inspector, a
registrar, or person directly interested therein,
from any order or decision of a judge made
or given under this Act,
  * (_a_) in the Northwest Territories, to the
Court of Appeal thereof, and
(6) in the Yukon Territory, to the Court of
Appeal thereof,
within the prescribed time, in the same
manner and with the same incidents in and
with which judgments and orders of that court
by a single judge may be appealed from.
(2) The practice and proceedings relating
to appeals in the said court including costs
and payment thereof and the enforcement of
judgments on appeal, adapted to the circum
stances, apply. R.S., c. 162, s. 187.

**188.** (1) Such courts of appeal may, by
order, provide and from time to time change
tariffs of costs payable for all services and
proceedings under this Act applicable to their
respective jurisdictions.
(2) Unless and until so provided for, the
tariffs of costs heretofore applicable continue
to apply. R.S., c. 162, s. 188.

## FORMS

**189.** The Governor in Council may, when
ever it is necessary so to do, add to or
otherwise vary any of the forms, or may cause
to be adopted any other form or forms that
he considers applicable to any special case or
class of cases for which a form has not been
in the schedule. R.S., c. 162, s. 189.

## GENERAL
19Q. (i) Where there has been granted for
tne , i purposes of ,. any work , authorized . , or
licensed under the Irrigation Act, chapter 104
of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, a
right-of-way through, or any other right
affecting, lands of Her Majesty, and such
right is expressed to be granted for so long as
the right of the grantee, his representatives or
assigns, to maintain and operate such work
continues, or to be subject to forfeiture in case
such last-mentioned right ceases or determines,
or in case of failure to construct or complete
such work, or to maintain or operate it, a
declaration, signed by the Minister or his
deputy, that the right so granted has
determined or been forfeited, either entirely
or in part, is final and conclusive for the
purposes of this Act, and operates as a
cancellation, in whole or in part, of such
grant.
(2) If SU ch grant has been registered, the
registrar shall, upon receipt of such declara-
tion, cancel, in whole or in part, as the case
may be, the registration of such grant and
any certificate of title issued for the right
granted thereby. R.S., c. 162, s. 190.

**191.** No petition, order, affidavit, certifi
cate, registration or other proceeding under
this Act is invalid by reason of any informality
or technical irregularity therein, or of any
mistake not affecting the substantial justice
of the proceeding. R.S., c. 162, s. 191.

**192.** If, in any matter before a judge under
this Act, the judge considers proper, he may
refer the matter to the court of appeal, and
that court may either dispose of the matter
or refer it back to the judge with such direction
as the court of appeal may think fit. R.S., c.
162, s. 192.

**193.** (1) Every owner or mortgagee of any
land for which a certificate of title has been
granted shall deliver to the registrar a
memorandum in writing of a post office
address within the Territories, to which it is
sufficient to mail all notices that, under this
Act, are required to be sent to an owner or
mortgagee.
(2) Every owner shall, if required by the
so to do, before the delivery of any
duplicate, sign a receipt therefor in his own
handwriting, or otherwise furnish the registrar
with his signature, so as to prevent personation
as far as possible.
(3) Every owner or mortgagee shall from
time to time notify the registrar of any change
in his post office address, but the registrar
may proceed without such memorandum of
address. R.S., c. 162, s. 193.

**194.** A purchaser, mortgagee or encum-
brancee for valuable consideration is not
affected by the omission to send any notice
by this Act directed to be given or by the
non-receipt thereof. R.S., c. 162, s. 194.

**195.** The Governor in Council may, in
cases herein unprovided for, make such rules
and regulations as he may deem necessary for
giving effect to this Act, and carrying out the
provisions thereof, according to its intent and
meaning. R.S., c. 162, s. 195.

**196.** The registrar may require evidence
that any person making a transfer, mortgage,
encumbrance or lease is of the full age of
twenty-one years. R.S., c. 162, s. 196.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
(Sec. 22)
FORM OF INSPECTOR S, REGISTRAR S AND DEPUTY REGISTRAR S OATH
OF OFFICE
Northwest Territories
of Canada,
(or as the case may be)
District of
To Wit :
I (name and describe deponent), having been appointed to
the office of inspector of land titles office (or registrar or dep
uty registrar) in and for the (name of registration district,
etc.), do swear (or affirm as the case may be) that I will well,
truly and faithfully perform and execute all duties required
of me, relating to the said office, so long as I continue therein,
and that I have not given, directly or indirectly, nor author
ized any person to give, any money, gratuity or reward what
soever for procuring the said office for me.
Sworn before me at the ^
of
in the of the
J&amp;gt;
day of , A.D. 19 (Signature oj inspector, registrar
or deputy registrar)

## FORM B
(Sec. 26)
FORM OF BOND OF INSPECTOR, REGISTRAR AND DEPUTY REGISTRAR
Northwest Territories
of Canada,
(or as the case may be)
District of
To Wit :
Know all men by these presents that I (insert name and
addition of the principal) of the of , in the
Northwest Territories of Canada, (or as the case may be)
hereinafter called the principal, and we (insert names and
additions oj the sureties) of the
of , in the
of and
of the of in the
hereinafter called the sureties, are respectively held and firmly
bound unto our Sovereign Lady the Queen, her heirs and
successors, in the respective penal sums following, that is to
say : the principal in the sum of dollars of lawful
money of Canada, and each of the sureties in a sum of
dollars of like lawful money, to be paid to our
said Sovereign Lady the Queen, her heirs and successors;
Dated this day of in the year of our
Lord 19 and in the year of Her Majesty s reign.
Whereas the principal, having been appointed to the office
or employment of is required by law to give security
to the Crown for the due performance of the duties appertain
ing thereto ; and the sureties have consented to become his
sureties for such his performance of the said duties; and this
bond is given in pursuance of the Land Titles Act.
Now the condition of this obligation is, that if the principal
faithfully discharges the duties of the said office and duly
accounts for all moneys and property which may come into his
custody by virtue of the said office, this obligation shall be
void, otherwise the same shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed, sealed and delivered \
in the presence of J (Signatures and seals)

## FORM C
(Sec. 26)
AFFIDAVIT OF JUSTIFICATION BY A SURETY
Northwest Territories
of Canada,
(or as the case may be)
District of
To Wit:
I, one of the sureties in the above (or within)
named bond or obligation named make oath (or affirm, as the
case may be) and say as follows:

**1.** I am seized and possessed to my own use of real (or real
and personal) estate, in the of
in Canada, of the actual value of dollars, over and
above all charges upon or encumbrances affecting the same.

**2.** My post office address is as follows: (insert it)
Sworn before me at the
of , in the 1
of , this day f (Signature)
of ,AJ&amp;gt;. 19

## FORM D
(Sec. 26)
AFFIDAVITS OF ATTESTATION OF BOND
Northwest Territories
of Canada,
(or as the case may be)
District of
To Wit :
I. of the of , in the
of , make oath and say, that I was
personally present, and did see (one of, or as the
case may be) the obligors in the above (or within) bond or
obligation named, duly execute the said instrument by signing,
Sworn before me, at the
of , in the \
of , this day
of A.D. 19 J |" (Signature)
(A separate affidavit in this Form will be made by a witness
to the execution by such obligor, ij the same person does not
witness the execution by all oj them)

## FORM E
(Sec. 41)
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE
CANADA NORTHWEST TERRITORIES (or YUKON TERRITORY),
REGISTRATION DISTRICT
This is to certify that A.B., of is now the owner
of an estate (describe the estate) of and in (describe the
property), subject to the encumbrances, liens and interests
notified by memorandum underwritten or endorsed hereon, or
which may hereafter be made in the register.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
and affixed my official seal this day of ,
A.D. 19
(And if subject to a mortgage,)
The title of A.B., is subject to mortgage, dated the
day of , A.D. 19 , made by A.B. to W.B., to
secure (here state the amount secured, the rate of interest
per cent per annum and the respective dates from which the
principal and interest are secured) payable as therein men
tioned. (// mortgage is discharged, say:) The above mortgage
No. , is discharged this day of ,
A.D. 19 , (here state the distinguishing letter or number
oj the register and the number of the folio therein.)
(And if subject to a lease,)
The title of A.B., is subject to a lease, dated the
day of , A.D. 19 , made by A.B. to Y.Z., for
the term of years.
(When the transfer is absolute,)
This certificate of title is cancelled and a new certificate of
title No. , issued this day of ,
A.D. 19
(Signature)

## FORM F
(Subsec. 55(1))
APPLICATION TO BRING LAND UNDER THE OPERATION OF THE LAND
TITLES ACT
To the registrar of registration district.
I, (insert name and addition), hereby apply to have the land
in possession for my life, or otherwise as the case may
IN ALL THAT piece of land, being (here describe the
land).

**2.** That such land, including all buildings and other im
provements thereon, is of the value of dollars, and
no more.

**3.** That there are no documents or evidences of title affecting
such land in my possession, or under my control, other than
those included in the schedule hereto.

**4.** That I am not aware of any mortgage or encumbrance
affecting the said land, or that any other person has any estate
or interest therein at law or in equity, in possession, remainder,
reversion or expectancy (if there be any add: other than as
follows, and set the same forth).

**5.** That the said land is now occupied (if unoccupied, prefix
un to occupied; if occupied, add by whom, and state the
name and addition of the occupant and the nature of his
occupancy).

**6.** That the names and addresses, so far as known to me, of
the occupants of all lands contiguous to the said land, are as
follows :

**7.** That the names and addresses, so far as known to me, of
the owners of all lands contiguous to the said land, are as
follows :
[// the certificate of title is not to be granted to the applicant,
add: And I direct the certificate of title to be granted in the
name of (insert name and addition).]
Dated this day of ,19
Made and subscribed at
in the presence of
(Signature)

## FORM G
(Subsecs. 55(1) and 114(2))
AFFIDAVIT OF APPLICANT
CANADA :
(or as the
case may be)
To Wit:
I, ,of in , make oath and
say:

**1.** That I am the applicant (or agent of or solicitor for the
applicant) named in the within application and am of the
full age of twenty-one years ;

**2.** That I have a of the facts set forth

## FORM H
(Subsec. 55(3))
AFFIDAVIT CONCERNING THE HUDSON S BAT COMPANY S LANDS
Northwest Territories
of Canada,
(or as the case may be}
District of
To Wit:
I, the of of
in the make oath and sav

**1.** I am an officer of the Hudson s Bay Company, entitled
to make this affidavit by the authority and under the approval
of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development
of Canada.

**2.** Title to the lands mentioned in the accompanying appli
cation now produced and shown to me, and marked with the
letter A, passed to the said company by notification under the
provisions of of the Dominion Lands Act (or by
letters patent issued on stating date as the case may be).

**3.** The said company is, at the date of this affidavit,
absolutely entitled to the said lands in fee simple and has not
encumbered the same in any way whatsoever.

**4.** And the said lands are not subject to any execution, and
are not chargeable with any arrears of municipal taxes, rates
or assessments.
Sworn before me at the
of , in the
of this (Signature)
day of , AD. 19
FORM I
(Sec. 78)
TRANSFER
I, AS., being registered owner of an estate (state the nature
oj estate), subject, however, to such encumbrances, liens and
interests as are notified by memorandum underwritten (or
endorsed thereon), in all that certain tract of land containing
acres, more or less, and being (part of) section
, township , range , in the
(or as the case may be), (here state rights-oj-way,
privileges, easements, ij any, intended to be conveyed along
with the land, and ij the land dealt with contains all included
in the original grant, refer thereto {or descriptions oj parcels
and diagrams; otherwise set forth the boundaries and accom
pany the description by a diagram), do hereby, in considera
tion of the sum of dollars paid to me by E.F., the
receipt of which sum I hereby acknowledge, transfer to the
said E.F., all my estate and interest in the said piece of land.
( When a lesser estate, describe such lesser estate.)
In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
day of , 19 .
Signed by said A.B., in the
of
(Signature)

## FORM K
(Subsec. 86(4))
I, , Dominion land surveyor, do solemnly declare
that this plan accurately shows the manner in which the land
included therein has been surveyed and subdivided by me, and
that the said plan is prepared in accordance with the provisions
of the Land Titles Act.
Dated at ,19
Signed in the presence of A.B.,
Dominion Land Surveyor

## FORM L
(Subsec. 88(1))
LEASE
I, A.B., being registered as owner, subject, however,
to such mortgages and encumbrances as are notified by
memorandum underwritten (or endorsed hereon), of that piece
of land described as follows : (here insert description) containing
acres, more or less (here state rights-oj-way, priv
ileges, easements, ij any, intended to be conveyed along with
the land, and ij the land dealt with contains all included in the
original grant or certificate oj title or lease, rejer thereto for
description and diagram, otherwise set forth the boundaries by
metes and bounds) do hereby lease to E.F., of (here insert
description), all the said land, to be held by him, the said E.F.,
as tenant, for the space of years, from (here state
the date and term), at the yearly rental of dollars,
payable (here insert terms of payment oj rent), subject to the
covenants and powers implied (also set forth any special
covenants or modifications oj implied covenants).
I, E.F., of (here insert description), do hereby accept this
lease of the above described land, to be held by me as tenant,
and subject to the conditions, restrictions and covenants above
set forth.
Dated this day of 19
Signed by the above named A.B.,
as lessor, and E.F., as lessee, in
the presence of (Signature of lessor)
lessee)
sublet the land and premises hereby leased,
or any part thereof, or otherwise by any
act or deed procure the said land and
premises, or any part thereof, to be trans
ferred or sublet, without the consent in
writing of the lessor or his transferees
first had and obtained.

**2.** Will fence 2. The covenantor, his executors, ad
ministrators, or transferees, will during
the continuance of the said term, erect
and put upon the boundaries of the said
land, or on those boundaries on which no
substantial fence now exists, a good and
substantial fence.

**3.** Will cultivate 3. The covenantor, his executors, ad
ministrators, or transferees, will, at all
times during the said term, cultivate, use
and manage in a proper husband-like
manner, all such parts of the land as are
now or shall hereafter, with the consent in
writing of the said lessor or his transferees,
be broken up or converted into tillage, and
will not impoverish or waste the same.

**4.** Will not cut timber 4. The covenantor, his executors, ad
ministrators, or transferees, will not cut
down, fell, injure or destroy any living
timber or timberlike tree standing and
being upon the said land, without the
consent in writing of the said lessor or
his transferees.

**5.** Will not carry on 5. The covenantor, his executors, ad
offensive trade ministrators, or transferees, will not, at
any time during the said term, use, exer
cise, or carry on, or permit or suffer to be
used, exercised or carried on, in or upon
the said premises, or any part thereof any
noxious, noisome or offensive art, trade,
business, occupation or calling; and no
act, matter or thing whatsoever shall, at
any time during the said term, be done in
or upon the said premises, or any part
thereof, which shall or may be or grow to
the annoyance, nuisance, grievance, dam
age or any disturbance of the occupiers or
owners of the adjoining lands and prop
erties.

## FORM X
(Subsec. 93(1))
SURRENDER OF LEASE
In consideration of dollars to me paid by (lessee
or his assigns, as the case may be) I do hereby surrender and
yield up from the day of the date hereof unto
the lease (describe the lease jully) and the term
therein created.
Dated the day of . A.D. 19
Signed by the above named "I
in the presence of (Signature)

## FORM
(Subsec. 94(1))
MORTGAGE
I, A.B., being registered as owner of an estate (here state
nature oj interest), subject, however, to such encumbrances,
liens and interests, as are notified by memorandum under
written (or endorsed hereon) in that piece of land described
as follows: (here insert description) containing
acres, be the same more or less( here state rights-of-way, priv
ileges, easements, if any, intended to be conveyed along with
the land, and if the land dealt with contains all included in the
original grant, refer thereto for description of parcels and
diagrams; otherwise set forth the boundaries and accompany
the description by a diagram), in consideration of the sum of
dollars lent to me by E.F., (here insert descrip
tion), the receipt of which sum I do hereby acknowledge,
covenant with the said E.F.:
Firstly That I will pay to him, the said E.F., the above
sum of dollars, on the day of ,
A.D. 19
Secondly That I will pay interest on the said sum at the
rate of on the dollar, in the year, by equal pay
ments on the day of , and on the
day of in every year.
Thirdly (Here set forth special covenants, if any.)
And for the better securing of the said E.F., the repayment,
in the manner aforesaid of the principal sum and interest, I
hereby mortgage to the said E.F., my estate and interest in
the land above described.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto signed my name this
day of , 19
Signed by the above named
A.B. as mortgagor, in the
presence of
(Signature of mortgagor)
(Insert memorandum oj mortgages and encumbrances)
(For Form of transfer of mortgage, see Form S)

## FORM P
(Subsec. 94(2))
ENCUMBRANCE
I, A.B., being registered as owner of an estate (state nature
oj estate), subject, however, to such mortgages and encum
brances as are notified by memorandum underwritten (or en
dorsed hereon), in that piece of land described as follows:
(here insert description) containing acres, more or
less (here state rights-of-way, privileges, easements, if any,
intended to be conveyed along with the land, and if the land
dealt with contains all included in the original grant or cer
tificate of title, refer thereto for description oj parcels and
diagrams, otherwise set forth the boundaries and accompany
the description by a diagram), and desiring to render the said
land available for the purpose of securing to and for the
benefit of C.D., of (description) the (sum of money, annuity
or rent charge) hereinafter mentioned; do hereby encumber
and in the manner following, that is to say: (here state the
times appointed jor the payment of the sum, annuity or rent
charge intended to be secured, the interest, if any, and the
events in which such sum, annuity or rent charge shall become
and cease to be payable, also any special covenants or powers,
and any modification of the powers or remedies given to an
encumbrancee by this Act) : And subject as aforesaid, the said
C.D. shall be entitled to all powers and remedies given to an
encumbrancee by the Land Titles Act.
Signed by the above named "1
, in the presence of J
(Signature of en
cumbrancer)
(Insert memorandum of mortgages and encumbrances)

## FORM Q
(Par. 39(c), subsecs. 95(1) and 96(2))
AFFIDAVIT TO BE FILED WITH A MORTGAGE OR ENCUMBRANCE
I, (name of mortgagor or encumbrancer, as the case may be)
of the of in the of
make oath and say :
(1) I am the mortgagor (or encumbrancer, as the case may
be), named in the hereunto annexed instrument, bearing date
the and made in favour of against (de
scribe the lands mortgaged or encumbered).
(2) The grant from the Crown of the said land has not yet
been issued, but I claim to be the party rightfully in possession
of the said land and to be entitled to create the said mortgage
(or encumbrance) and that particulars of my possession and
title to the said land are as follows: (here must be given
such information as will satisfy the registrar as to the mort
gagor s or encumbrancer s right to create the mortgage or
encumbrance, and, in the case of such mortgagor or encum
brancer of land entered for by him as a homestead or pre
emption under the provisions in that behalf contained in the
Dominion Lands Act, that he has been recommended jor patent
and received his certificate of recommendation in accordance
with the said provisions).
Sworn before me at the
of in the
of this
day of , 19 . (Signature)

## FORM R
(Sec. 58, subsec. 100(1))
RECEIPT OR ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF PAYMENT OF MORTGAGE OR OTHER
ENCUMBRANCE
I, C.D., the mortgagee (encumbrancee or assignee as the
case may be) do acknowledge to have received all the moneys
due or to become due under the within written mortgage (or
encumbrance, as the case may be) and that the same is
discharged.
In witness whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name
day of , 19 .
Signed by the above named C.D., \
presence of J (Signature)
FORM S
(Subsec. 104(1))
TRANSFER OF MORTGAGE, ENCUMBRANCE OR LEASE
I. C.D., the mortgagee, (encumbrancee or lessee as the case
may be), in consideration of dollars this day paid
to me by X.Y., of . the receipt of which sum I
do hereby acknowledge, hereby transfer to him the mortgage
(encumbrance or lease, as the case may be, describe the in
strument fully), together with all my rights, powers, title, and
interest therein.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
this day of , 19 .
Signed by the said
C.D., Transferor
in presence of Accepted X.Y., Transferee

## FORM T
(Subsec. 105(1))
TRANSFER OF PART OF MORTGAGE OR ENCUMBRANCE
I. C.D., the mortgagee (or encumbrancee, or as the case may
be), in consideration of dollars this day paid to
me by X.Y., of , the receipt of which sum I do
hereby acknowledge, hereby transfer to him dollars
of the mortgage (or encumbrance, as the case may be, describe
the instrument jully), together with all my rights, powers, title,
and interest therein, and the sum so transferred shall be
preferred (or deferred or rank equally, as the case may be), to
the remaining sum secured by the mortgage (or encumbrance).
In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
this day of , 19 .
Signed by the said ~
CJD., Transferor
in presence of Accepted X.Y., Transferee

## FORM U
(Subsec. 109(1))
SHORT COVENANTS IN MORTGAGE
COLUMN ONE COLUMN TWO

**1.** Has a good title to 1. And also, that the said mortgagor, at
the said land the time of the sealing and delivery hereof,
is, and stands solely, rightfulh and law
fully seized of a good, sure, perfect, ab
solute and indefeasible estate of inheri
tance, in fee-simple, of and in the lands,
tenements, hereditaments and all and
singular other the premises hereinbefore
described, with their and every part of
their appurtenances and of and in every
part and parcel thereof, without any
manner of trusts, reservations, limitations,
provisos or conditions, except those con
tained in the original grant thereof from
the Crown, or any other matter or thing
IN MORTGAGE (Cont d.)
COLUMN TWO
to alter, charge, change, encumber or
defeat the same.

**2.** And also that the said mortgagor
now hath in himself good right, full power
and lawful and absolute authority to con
vey the said lands, tenements, heredita
ments, and all and singular other the
premises hereby conveyed or hereinbefore
mentioned or intended so to be, with their
and every of their appurtenances unto the
said mortgagee, his heirs, executors, ad
ministrators and assigns in manner afore
said, and according to the true intent and
meaning of these presents.

**3.** And also, that from and after default
shall happen to be made of or in the pay
ment of the said sum of money, in the said
above proviso mentioned, or the interest
thereof, or any part thereof, or of or in the
doing, observing, performing, fulfilling or
keeping of some one or more of the provi
sions, agreements or stipulations in the
said above proviso particularly set forth,
contrary to the true intent and meaning
of these presents, and of the said proviso,
then, and in every such case, it shall and
may be lawful to and for the said mort
gagee, his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, peaceably and quietly to enter
into, have, hold, use, occupy, possess, and
enjoy the aforesaid lands, tenements,
hereditaments and premises, hereby con
veyed or mentioned or intended so to be,
with their appurtenances, without the let,
suit, hindrance, interruption or denial of
him the said mortgagor, his heirs, or
assigns, or any other person or persons
whomsoever.

**4.** And that free and clear and freely
and clearly acquitted, exonerated and dis
charged of and from all arrears of taxes
and assessments whatsoever due or pay
able upon or in respect of the said lands,
tenements, hereditaments and premises,
or any part thereof, and of and from all
former conveyances, mortgages, rights,
annuities, debts, judgments, executions
and recognizances, and of and from all
manner of other charges or encumbrances
whatsoever.

**5.** And also, that from and after default
shall happen to be made of or in the pay
ment of the said sum of money in the said
proviso mentioned, or the interest thereof,
or any part of such money or interest or of
or in the doing, observing, performing, ful
filling, or keeping of some one or more of
the provisions, agreements or stipulations
in the said above proviso particularly set
forth, contrary to the true intent and
meaning of these presents and of the said
proviso, then and in every such case the
said mortgagor, his heirs and assigns, and
all and every other person or persons
SHORT COVENANTS IN MORTGAGE (Cone.)
COLUMN ONE COLUMN TWO
whosoever having, or lawfully claiming,
or who shall or may have or lawfully claim
any estate, right, title, interest or trust of,
in, to or out of the lands, tenements,
hereditaments, and premises hereby con
veyed or mentioned or intended so to be,
with the appurtenances or any part thereof,
by, from, under or in trust for him the said
mortgagor, shall and will, from time to
time, and at all times thereafter, at the
proper costs and charges of the said
mortgagee, his heirs, executors, adminis
trators and assigns make, do, suffer and
execute, or cause or procure to be made,
done, suffered and executed, all and every
such further and other reasonable act or
acts, deed or deeds, devices, conveyances
and assurances in the law for the further,
better and more perfectly and absolutely
conveying the said lands, tenements,
hereditaments and premises, with the ap
purtenances, unto the said mortgagee, his
heirs, executors, administrators and as
signs, as by the said mortgagee, his heirs,
executors, or his or their counsel learned
in the law, shall or may be lawfully and
reasonably devised, advised or required,
so that no person who shall be required to
make or execute such assurances shall be
compelled, for the making or executing
thereof, to go or travel from his usual
place of abode.

**6.** Has done no act to 6. And also that the said mortgagor
encumber the land hath not at any time heretofore made,
done, committed, executed or wilfuDy or
knowingly suffered any act, deed, matter
or thing whatsoever whereby or by means
whereof the said lands, tenements, heredi
taments and premises hereby conveyed or
mentioned or intended so to be, or any
part or parcel thereof, are, is or shall or
may be in any wise impeached, charged,
affected or encumbered in title, estate, or
otherwise howsoever.

## FORM V
(Subsec. 110(1))
POWER OF ATTORNEY
I, AS., being registered owner of an estate (here state nature
of the estate or interest), subject, however, to such encum
brances, liens and interests as are notified by memorandum
underwritten (or endorsed hereon), (here refer to schedule for
description and contents of the several parcels of land intended
to be affected which schedule must contain reference to the
existing certificate of title or lease of each parcel) do hereby
appoint CD. attorney on my behalf to (here state the nature
and extent of the powers intended to be conferred, as to sell,
lease, mortgage, etc.), the land in the said schedule described,
and to execute all such instruments, and do all such acts,
matters and things as may be necessary for carrying out the
powers hereby given and for the recovery of all rents and sums
of money that may become or are now due, or owing to me
in respect of the said lands, and for the enforcement of all
contracts, covenants or conditions binding upon any lessee or
occupier of the said lands, or upon any other person in respect
of the same, and for the taking and maintaining possession of
said lands, and for protecting the same from waste, damage
or trespass.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
this day of , 19 .
Signed by the above named A.B., "1
in the presence of (Signature)

## FORM W
(Subsecs. 110(3) and 113(1))
REVOCATION OF POWEK OF ATTORNEY
I, A.B., of hereby revoke the power of attorney
given by me to , dated the day of
, 19 , and recorded in the Land Titles Office
at for the Land Registration district, on
the day of ,19 , as Number
In witness whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name
this day of ,19
Signed by the above named A.B.,
in the presence of (Signature)

## FORM X
(Subsec. 128(2))
TRANSFER OF LAND UNDER PROCESS OF LAW
I, , of , the person appointed to
execute the process hereinafter mentioned in pursuance of a
writ dated the day of , 19 , and is
sued out of (insert name o] court), a court of competent
jurisdiction, in an action wherein is the plaintiff,
and the defendant, which said is regis
tered as the owner of the land hereinafter described, subject
to the mortgages and encumbrances notified hereunder, do
hereby, in consideration of the sum of paid to me,
as aforesaid, by E.F., (insert addition) TRANSFER
to the said E.F., all that piece of land (here insert a sufficient
description of the land, and rejer to the debtor s certificate
oj title or grant).
Dated the day of , 19 .
Signed by the above named
, in the presence (Signature with official seal)
of
Mortgages and encumbrances referred to. (State them.)
Or,

## FORM X
(Subsec. 131(2))
TRANSFER OF LAND ON SALE FOR TAXES
I, , of , by virtue of authority vested
in me to sell lands for arrears of taxes by do here
by, in consideration of the sum of paid to me by
(insert addition) TRANSFER to the said E.F., all that piece
land, being (here insert a sufficient description oj the land,
rejer to the certificate oj title).
Dated the day of ,19
Signed by the above named
, in the presence
of (Signature with official seal)
Or,

## FORM X
TRANSFER OF LAND UNDER DECREE OR ORDER OF A COURT OF
COMPETENT JURISDICTION
I, (insert name), in pursuance of a decree (or order) of (imert
name oj court), a court of competent jurisdiction, dated the
day of 19 , and entered in the regis
ter, vol. , fol. hereby TRANSFER to E.F.
(imert addition), subject to the mortgages and encumbrances,
notified hereunder, all that piece of land being (here insert a
sufficient description of the land and rejer to the certificate of
title or grant).
Dated the day of , 19
Signed by the above named
, in the presence
of (Signature with official seal)
Mortgages and encumbrances referred to. (State them.)
Or,

## FORM X
TRANSFER OF LEASE, MORTGAGE OR ENCUMBRANCE, UNDER DECREE
OR ORDER OF A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION
I, (insert name), in pursuance of a decree or order of (insert
name oj court), a court of competent jurisdiction, dated the
day of , 19 , and entered in the
register, vol. , fol. hereby TRANSFER to
E.F., (insert addition), subject to the mortgages and encum
brances notified hereunder, the lease (or mortgage or encum
brances, as the case may be) granted by in favour
of of (or upon) all that piece of land (here insert
description of the land according to the description in the
lease, mortgage or encumbrance, and refer to the registered
instrument).
Dated the day of , 19 .
Signed by the above named
, in the presence
of J (Signature with official seal)
Mortgages and encumbrances referred to. (State them.)
Or,

## FORM X
OF LEASE, MORTGAGE, OR ENCUMBRANCE UNDER PROCESS
OF LAW
I, , of , the person appointed to exe
cute the writ hereinafter mentioned (or otherwise, as the case
may be), in pursuance of a writ of fieri jacias, tested the
day of , 19 , and issued out of (in
sert name of court), a court of competent jurisdiction, in an
action wherein is the plaintiff and the
defendant, which said is registered as the owner of
a lease (mortgage or encumbrance, as the case may be) num
bered of (or upon) the land hereinafter described,
subject to the mortgages or encumbrances notified hereunder,
do hereby, in consideration of the sum of paid to
me as aforesaid, by E.F. (insert addition) TRANSFER
to the said E.F. the lease (mortgage or encumbrance) granted
by to and in favour of ,
dated the day of , to, in and over
(here describe the land according to the description in the
lease, mortgage or encumbrance, and rejer to the registered
instrument).
Dated the day of ,19
Signed by the above named
, in the presence
of (Signature with official seal)

## FORM Y
(Sec. 133)
CAVEAT
To the registrar district.
Take notice that I, A.B., of (insert description) claiming
(here state the nature of the estate or interest claimed, and
the grounds upon which such claim is founded) in (here de
scribe land and refer to certificate of title) forbid the registra
tion of any transfer affecting such land or the granting of a
certificate of title thereto except subject to the claim herein
set forth.
My address is :
Dated this day of . 19 .
(Signature of caveator or his agent)
I, the above named A.B., (or C.D., agent for the above
A.B.) of (residence and description) make oath (or affirmation,
as the case may be) and say, that the allegations in the above
caveat are true in substance and in fact (and, if there is no
personal knowledge, add) as I verily believe.
Sworn, etc.,
(Signature)
(If the affidavit is by an agent, a copy of the authority or
power under which he claims to act is to be annexed.)
the (within or annexed) instrument, who is personally known
to me to be the person named therein, duly sign and execute
the same for the purposes named therein;

**2.** That the same was executed at the , in the
, and that I am the subscribing witness thereto;

**3.** That I know the said and he is in
my belief of the full age of twenty-one years.
Sworn before me at
in the
this day
of , A.D. 19 . J (Signature)

## FORM AA
(Subsec. 154(1))
REFERENCE BY REGISTRAR TO THE JUDGE
(Place and Date)
In the matter of the registration of transfer (or as the case
may be) A.B. toC.D.
The registrar, under the provisions of the Land Titles Act,
hereby refers the following matter to the judge, to wit:
(Here state briefly the difficulty that has arisen.)
The parties interested, so far as the registrar knows or has
been informed, are: (Here give the names.)
(Signature)
(Official seal) Registrar

## FORM BB
(Subsecs. 155(1) and 156(3))
DEMAND TO RETURN CERTIFICATE OF TITLE
To (name oj owner or whoever is custodian o) certificate) :
You are hereby required to forward to the land titles office,
certificate of title No. , in favour of (insert owner s
name) for (description oj land) as the same is required by me,
pursuant to the provisions of the Land Titles Act, for the
purpose (purpose {or which certificate is required and whether
or not by direction of a judge).
Your attention is called to the provisions of sections 155 and
156 of the said Act, and the penalty therein provided for
or refusal to with this demand.

## FORM CC
(Subsec.97(2))
CERTIFICATE OF CHARGE
Mortgage or Encumbrance
Mortgage or Encumbrance No. Application No.
Assignment Xo. Certificate of Title No.
This is to certify that a made by
to for the sum
of dollars affecting was duly registered
in the Land Titles Office at on the day
of , AD. 19 , at o clock
as number and that no registered mortgages or en
cumbrances affecting the said lands are entitled to priority
over the said except the following, that is to say:
Dated at the Land Titles Office at
this day of , A.D. 19
Registrar,
Land Registration District

## FORM DD
(Subsec. 114(2))
TRANSMISSION APPLICATION
To the Registrar of the Registration District,
I, of the of , hereby apply to
be registered as owner of the land hereinafter described under
the Land Titles Act ;
AND DECLARE :

**1.** That I am of the full age of twenty-one years;

**2.** That I claim to be registered as aforesaid under and by
virtue of

**3.** The land referred to is as follows: (set out description)

**4.** That such land including all buildings and other improve
ments thereon, is of the value of dollars and
no more ;

**5.** That there are no documents or evidences of title affecting
such land in my possession or under my control other than
those included in the schedule hereto:

**6.** That I am not aware of any mortgage or encumbrance
affecting the said land or that any other person has or
claims to have any estate or interest therein at law or in
equity in possession, remainder, reversion or expectancy
other than

**7.** That the said land is occupied by

**8.** That the only buildings or improvements of any kind upon
the said lands are as follows :
Dated this day of"
19
Made and Subscribed at
in the presence of (Signature)

## FORM EE
(Subsec. 137(1))
NOTICE TO CAVEATOR TO TAKE PROCEEDINGS ON CAVEAT
Take notice that the caveat lodged by you in the Land
Titles Office for the Land Registration District of
on the day of , 19 forbidding the
registration of any person as transferee or owner of, or of any
instrument affecting, the estate or interest claimed in your
caveat in respect of (describe land and refer to certificate of
title) unless such instrument be expressed to be
subject to your claim, will lapse and cease to have effect after
the expiration of three months from the day on which this
notice is served on you or sent to you by registered mail unless
in the meantime you take proceedings in court to establish
the claim made in your caveat. This notice is given pursuant
to section 137 of the Land Titles Act.
Dated at the day of 19
To (the caveator)
at (address stated in the caveat)
(Signature oj person giving the notice)
R.S., c. 162, Sch.
