
# CHAPTER L-5
Act respecting the surveys of public lands
of Canada

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Canada
Lands Surveys Act. R.S., c. 26, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
Board" means the Board of Examiners
appointed under this Act ;
candidate" includes an applicant for admis
sion as an articled pupil or for a commission
or for a certificate;
certificate" means a valid and subsisting
certificate granted under this Act designat
ing the person to whom it is granted a
Dominion topographical surveyor ;
commission" means a valid and subsisting
commission granted under this Act author
izing the person to whom it is granted to
survey lands under this Act ;
Dominion land surveyor" means a person
who holds a commission ;
Dominion topographical surveyor" means a
person who holds a certificate ;
examination" means the examination of a
candidate ;
Minister" means except in Part III the
Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources;
monument" means a post, stake, peg, mound,
pit, trench, or any other object, thing or
device used under this Act or under the
Dominion Lands Surveys Act, chapter 117 of
the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, to
mark a boundary of surveyed lands ;
examination" means the exami
nation for admission as an articled pupil ;
means prescribed in rules or
regulations made by the Board ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Board ;
"survey" includes a resurvey and a special
survey ;
"Surveyor General" means a person who is a
Dominion land surveyor and is appointed
as Surveyor General in the manner author
ized by law or a person authorized by the
Minister to carry out the duties of the
Surveyor General in his absence.
(2) A valid and subsisting certificate as a
Dominion TA topographical i i surveyor or a valid i i
and subsisting commission as a Dominion
j ancj surve y or i ssu ed under the Dominion
Lands Surveys Act has the same force and
effect as a certificate or commission, respec
tively, granted under this Act. R.S., c. 26, s.
2; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 41.

## ADMINISTRATION

**3.** (1) The Minister has the administration,
direction and control of surveys under this
Act.
(2) The Surveyor General, subject to the
direction of the Minister, has the management
of surveys under this Act and the custody of
all the original plans, journals, field notes
and other papers connected with such surveys.
(3) The Minister may authorize an officer
of the Department of Energy, Mines and
Resources who is a Dominion land surveyor
to carry out the duties of the Surveyor
General during his absence. R.S., c. 26, s. 3;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 41.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
such orders and regulations as he deems
necessary to carry out this Act or to meet any
cases with reference to surveys under the
of the Surveyor General for
no provision is made in this Act.
(2) The Minister may establish a tariff of
fees to be charged by the Department of
Energy, Mines and Resources for copies of
maps, plans, field notes, or any other type of
record or document arising from or respecting
surveys under this Act and such fees shall
form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
R.S., c. 26, s. 4; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 41.

## PARTI

## EXAMINATIONS, POWERS AND

## DUTIES OF DOMINION LAND

## SURVEYORS
Board of examiners

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
appoint a Board of Examiners consisting of
the Surveyor General, who shall be Chairman,
and two other members.
(2) Where a member of the Board, other
than the Chairman, is, in the opinion of the
Governor in Council, unable permanently or
temporarily to perform the duties of his office,
the Governor in Council may, as he deems
expedient, appoint a new member or a
temporary member to replace such member.
(3) Suitable Dominion topographical sur
veyors who are also Dominion land surveyors
shall be appointed as members or temporary
members of the Board but Dominion land
surveyors may be appointed as such members
where no suitable Dominion topographical
surveyors are available.
(4) Members of the Board, other than the
Chairman, hold office during pleasure.
(5) Two members of the Board constitute a
quorum.
(6) The Minister shall appoint a person to
be Secretary of the Board whose duties include
the keeping of records of all proceedings of
the Board.
(7) Every member or temporary member of
the Board shall, before entering office, take
the following oath :
I, do solemnly swear that I will
faithfully discharge the duty of an examiner of candidates
for admission as articled pupils, for commissions as
Dominion land surveyors or for certificates as Dominion
topographical surveyors, according to law, and without
affection or partiality. So help me God.
26, s. 5.
. (1) The Board shall comply with any
j- ., , ,, ,-,
directions given to it by the Governor in
Council or by the Minister with respect to the
exercise of its powers.
(2) Subject to section 8, the Board shall
examine candidates. , . , .
(3) The Board has control over all matters
relating to the examination, admission and
qualifications of candidates and may, for such
purposes, with the approval of the Governor
in Council, make rules or regulations prescrib
ing
  * (_a_) the subjects in which candidates for
admission as articled pupils, for commissions
or for certificates shall be examined ;
(6) rules respecting the conduct of exami
nations including notice to be given respect
ing examinations;
  * (_c_) the training and standards required by
any provincial land surveyor or other person
who applies for a commission or certificate
under this Act ;
  * (_d_) the forms of articles, transfer of articles
and proof of service under articles with
respect to articled pupils;
  * (_e_) such other forms, rules or regulations
that the Board may deem requisite in any
matter respecting the examinations, admis
sion and qualifications of candidates ; and
(/) the form of certificates and commissions.
R.S., c. 26, s. 6; 1966-67, c. 60, s. 1.

**7.** Every member or temporary member of
the Board and the Secretary of the Board,
whether or not he is employed or paid in any
other capacity in the public service of Canada,
may, in respect of the performance of his
duties and functions under this Act, be paid
  * (_a_) remuneration at an annual rate to be
fixed by the Treasury Board on the
recommendation of the Public Service
Commission; and
(6) his actual living and travelling expenses
incurred while away from his normal place
of residence. 1956, c. 22, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 71,
s. 47.
Special examiners

**8.** (1) The Minister may, upon the recom
of the Board, appoint qualified
as special examiners to examine
to prepare examination papers
and to appraise the responses of candidates
thereto.
(2) A member of the Board is, ex officio. a
special examiner.
(3) Persons qualified for appointment as
special examiners are
  * (_a_) Dominion land surveyors ;
  * (_b_) provincial land surveyors duly qualified
under the laws of the province in which
they will preside at examinations to be held
therein ; or
  * (_c_) persons who are, in the opinion of the
Board, particularly conversant with the
specific subjects of the various examinations.
(4) Every special examiner, other than a
member of the Board, shall before entering
office take the oath described in subsection
5(7). R.S., c. 26, s. 8; 1966-67, c. 60, s. 2.

**9.** Every special examiner, other than a
member of the Board, may be paid for the
work performed with respect to the preparation
of examination papers and to the appraisal
of responses of candidates thereto, and for
each day on which he presides at an
examination such fees as may be fixed by the
Treasury Board and his actual living and
travelling expenses incurred while away from
his normal place of residence. 1956, c. 22, s. 2;
1966-67, c. 60, s. 3.
Examinations

**10.** (1) The Board shall, in order to hold
examinations, meet at Ottawa on the second
Monday in the month of February in each
year and at such other times and places as
the Minister may direct.
(2) The Minister may direct that examina
tions be held by special examiners at such
times and places as he thinks fit.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), notice of
examinations to be held under this section
shall be published in the Canada Gazette as
prescribed.
(4) The Minister may, in special cases where
he deems it expedient, dispense with publica
tion of notice of an examination or may
direct that notice may be given in a manner
other than as prescribed. R.S., c. 26, s. 10.

**11.** Unless otherwise provided for in this
Act, all examinations are subject to the rules
and regulations made by the Board. R.S., c.
26, s. 11.

**12.** No candidate shall be examined unless
he has, in accordance with this Act and the
rules and regulations made by the Board,
  * (_a_) submitted notice of his intention to be
examined ;
(6) paid all fees required in respect of an
examination ; and
  * (_c_) complied with all requirements relating
to an examination. R.S., c. 26, s. 12.

**13.** The Board or a special examiner, as
the case may be, may examine a candidate
under oath, to be administered by a member
of the Board or the special examiner,
respecting any qualification or other matter
relating to his examination. R.S., c. 26, s. 13.
Fees

**14.** (1) Candidates and pupils shall pay
the following fees to the Secretary :
  * (_a_) at the time of making application for a
preliminary examination, ten dollars;
(6) at the time of making application for
examination for a certificate or for a
commission, ten dollars ;
  * (_c_) at the time of making application for a
supplementary examination, five dollars ;
  * (_d_) by each candidate who passes the
examination required for a commission,
twenty-two dollars ;
  * (_e_) by each candidate who passes the
examination required for a certificate, two
dollars; and
  * (_f_) by each pupil at the time of filing
articles or a transfer of articles, two dollars.
(2) Fees payable under this section shall be
by the Secretary to the Receiver
and shall form part of the Con
Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 26, s. 14;
1966-67, c. 60, s. 4.
Articled pupils

**15.** No person shall be admitted as an
articled pupil with a Dominion land surveyor
until he has passed a preliminary examination
in the prescribed subjects. 1966-67, c. 60, s. 5.

**16.** (1) Every articled pupil shall, in writ
ing, enter into articles in a prescribed form
with a Dominion land surveyor.
(2) Each instrument of articles shall be for
a term of service of three years.
(3) A. Dominion land surveyor may by an
instrument in writing, in a prescribed form,
transfer a pupil, with the consent of the pupil,
to serve the remainder of his term under
articles with another Dominion land surveyor.
(4) Where a Dominion land surveyor, to
whom a pupil is articled, dies, leaves Canada,
has his commission suspended or cancelled or
is, in the opinion of the Board, for any reason
unable to fulfil his duties toward the pupil
under such articles, the pupil may complete
his term of service under articles with another
Dominion land surveyor.
(5) Where a person entering articles or
whose articles are transferred is at the time of
entering or transferring under the age of
twenty-one years, the prescribed form of
articles or transfer of articles shall require the
written consent of the father, guardian or
other person standing in the place of the
father of the pupil. R.S., c. 26, s. 16.

**17.** (i) Where articles are entered into or
transferred, the articled pupil shall send, by
registered mail, a duplicate of the articles or
a duplicate of the transfer of articles, as the
case may be, together with the required fee to
the Secretary within three months after the
date on which the articles are entered into or
transferred.
(2) The Secretary shall file and keep with
the Board s records all instruments referred
to in this section.
(3) Where duplicates of articles or transfer
of the articled pupil under them shall
count from the date on which they are mailed
by registered mail to the Secretary unless
otherwise authorized by the Board. R.S., c.
26, s. 17.

**18.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), no articled
pupil shall be examined for a commission
unless he
  * (_a_) has served under articles for a period of
three years including at least one year s
actual practice in the field ; and
  * (_b_) furnishes to the Board in prescribed
forms,
  * (_i_) his affidavit that he has completed
the required period of service under
articles, and
  * (_ii_) the affidavit of the Dominion land
surveyor or, in the case of a transfer of
articles, of each Dominion land surveyor
with whom he has served under articles
or, in any case where an affidavit cannot
be obtained, such other evidence of service
as is satisfactory to the Board.
(2) The Board may, in its discretion, permit
an articled pupil to be examined for a
commission where he has served less than
three years but not less than two years and
eight months under articles and may accept
the affidavits or other evidence required
under subsection (1) in proof of the lesser
period so served.
(3) Where, under subsection (2), an articled
pupil is permitted by the Board to be
examined for a commission before his full
three-year period of service is completed, a
commission shall not be granted to him until
he has furnished to the Board affidavits or
other evidence acceptable to the Board
showing that he has completed the balance of
his three-year period of service under articles.
R.S., c. 26,s. 19.
Commissions

**19.** (1) The Board may, in its discretion,
grant a commission as a Dominion land
surveyor to
mission, has reached the age of twenty-one
years and has passed the examination for a
commission ;
  * (_b_) a person who
  * (_i_) holds a valid and subsisting certificate,
diploma, commission or other document
entitling him to survey lands in a province
of Canada under the laws of such province
or to survey lands in a country of the
British Commonwealth, as defined in the
Canadian Citizenship Act, or in a province,
state or other territorial division of such
country under the laws of such country,
or of the province, state or other territorial
division thereof, and
  * (_ii_) has served under articles or other
similar agreement with a surveyor and
has passed examinations of a nature and
type satisfactory to the Board and, where
the Board so directs, completes a term of
sen-ice under articles to a Dominion land
surveyor, or passes such further examina
tion or examinations, or both, as may be
prescribed by the Board ; or
  * (_c_) subject to subsection (2), a person who
  * (_i_) has received a degree from a college,
university or other educational institution
upon completion of a course of theoretical
and practical instruction satisfactory to
the Board,
  * (_ii_) has passed the preliminary examina
tion and the examination for a commis
sion, and
  * (_iii_) has served one year under articles
with a Dominion land surveyor including
at least six months actual practice in the
field and has furnished to the Board
proof of service under articles similar to
that required in respect of articled pupils
under this Act.
(2) No person referred to in paragraph (l)(c)
in its discretion, permits him to be so examined
upon proof of service of not less than nine
months under articles including at least six
months actual practice in the field and, where
such permission has been given, a commission
shall not be granted to him until he has
furnished to the Board proof that he has
completed the balance of his one-year period
of service under articles. R.S., c. 26, s. 20.

**20.** (1) Evenr person who is granted a
commission shall, before commencing practice
as a Dominion land surveyor,
  * (_a_) take, before any person duly authorized
to take oaths or affidavits, the following
oaths:
  * (_i_) I, , do solemnly swear that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of a Do
minion land surveyor according to law and
without favour, affection or partiality. So help
me God.
  * (_ii_) I, , do solemnly swear that I
will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her
Majesty, Her Heirs and Successors, according
to law. So help me God.
(6) pay the fee required under paragraph
14(l)(d) ; and
  * (_c_) send to the Secretary a bond, entered
into by him with two sureties and in a form
satisfactory to the Board, in favour of Her
Majesty in right of Canada in the sum of
one thousand dollars conditioned upon the
due and faithful performance of his duties
as a Dominion land surveyor.
(2) Every commission shall be registered in
the office of the Registrar General of Canada.
(3) The oaths referred to in subsection (1)
shall be filed and kept in the office of the
Surveyor General.
(4) The bonds referred to in subsection (1)
shall be deposited and kept in the manner
prescribed in the Public Officers Act and are
subject to the provisions of that Act respecting
public officers and enure to the benefit of any
person, including Her Majesty in right of
Canada, who sustains damage by breach of
anv condition thereof. R.S., c. 26, s. 21.
Certificates

**21.** The Board may grant a certificate as
educational institution approved by the
Board who has passed the preliminary
examination ;
and who passes an examination in the higher
branches of surveying in prescribed subjects
and has paid the fee required under paragraph
14(l)(e). R.S., c. 26, s. 22.
Cancellations and suspension of commissions
and certificates

**22.** (1) The Board may suspend for such
period as it thinks advisable or may cancel a
commission or certificate where it finds that
the holder thereof is guilty of
  * (_a_) gross negligence or corrupt practice in
carrying out his duties as a surveyor ;
  * (_b_) certifying to false returns of a survey;
  * (_c_) certifying as his survey a survey made
by another surveyor ; or
  * (_d_) making a survey in which he has used a
measure that is not regulated and verified
in accordance with this Act.
(2) The Board shall not make a finding
under subsection (1) unless and until
  * (_a_) the Secretary has, at least thirty days
before the day on which a finding is to be
made, sent to the surveyor a registered
letter containing a notice of the grounds
for cancellation or suspension to be consid
ered by the Board and notifying him to
appear before the Board at the day set for
the hearing ;
(6) the Board has heard such evidence as
may be adduced in support of the charges
against the surveyor ; and
  * (_c_) the Board has heard such evidence in
rebuttal of the charges as may be adduced
by the surveyor, by witnesses called by him
or, in the event that he fails to appear, by
a person appointed by the Board to act on
his behalf. R.S., c. 26, s. 23.
Duties and powers of surveyors

**23.** (1) The Surveyor General shall require
Dominion land surveyor, in addition to
oaths taken by him after the grant of his
commission, to verify and affirm by oath or
to the satisfaction of the Surveyor
General, on each return of his surveys under
this Act that he has faithfully and correctly
executed such surveys in accordance with this
Act and with any instructions issued to him
by the Surveyor General.
(2) Where a court of competent jurisdiction
finds that a survey or any part thereof has
not been executed as verified under subsection
(1), the Attorney General of Canada may,
upon application of the Surveyor General,
institute proceedings to recover upon the bond
given, under this Act, by the surveyor who
verified the returns. R.S., c. 26, s. 24.

**24.** Every Dominion land surveyor shall
keep exact and regular journals and field
notes of all his surveys under this Act and
shall file them with the Surveyor General in
the order of time in which the surveys have
been performed. U.S., c. 26, s. 25.

**25.** A Dominion land surveyor may, for
the purposes of carrying out a survey of lands
under this Act, enter upon, pass over or
measure the boundaries of the lands of any
person but he shall take all reasonable
precautions to avoid causing any damage in
so doing. R.S., c. 26, s. 26.

**26.** (1) A Dominion land surveyor may, in
carrying out a survey of lands under this Act,
if he reasonably believes that any person may
have knowledge on any matter relating to the
survey,
  * (_a_) request such person to appear before
him as a witness ;
(6) apply to a justice of the peace for a
subpoena compelling such person to appear
before the surveyor to give evidence and to
bring such documents as may be specified
in the subpoena ; and
  * (_c_) take evidence from any person requested
or compelled to appear before him under
an oath or affirmation to be administered
by the surveyor.
(2) Every justice of the peace may, upon
application by a Dominion land surveyor
supported by an affidavit by him setting out
the reason for requiring the attendance of a
witness, issue the subpoena referred to in
subsection (1).
(3) A subpoena under this section shall
either be personally served upon the person
named therein or left with an adult person at
his residence and shall state the time and
place at which the hearing before the surveyor
will be held.
(4) A Dominion land surveyor may tender
to a witness under this section such conduct
money as will in the opinion of the Dominion
land surveyor compensate the witness for his
reasonable expenses in attending before him
and, in the event of a dispute as to the
amount, shall refer the matter to a justice of
the peace whose decision therein shall be
final.
(5) Where a person named in a subpoena
refuses or fails to appear before a Dominion
land surveyor at the time and place named
in the subpoena, the Dominion land surveyor
may apply to a justice of the peace for a
warrant against such person and the justice
of the peace may issue such warrant. R.S., c.
26, s. 27.

**27.** All evidence, including any documents
or other exhibits produced at the hearing,
taken before a Dominion land surveyor under
section 26 shall be
  * (_a_) reduced to writing ;
(6) read to and affirmed by the witness by
whom it is given and by the Dominion land
surveyor ; and
  * (_c_) filed and kept in the office of the
Surveyor General as part of the returns of
the survey. R.S., c. 26, s. 28.
Chain bearer

**28.** Every person employed by a Dominion
land surveyor to act as a chain bearer in a
survey under this Act shall, before he
commences his duties, take before the Domin
ion land surveyor an oath or affirmation,
administered by the Dominion land surveyor,
that he will perform his duties as a chain
to the best of his ability and will render
a true account of his chaining and measuring
the Dominion land surveyor. R.S., c. 26,

**29.**
Standard of measure

**29.** (1) The measure of length for surveys
this Act is the Canadian measure of
length defined by the Weights and Measures
Act.
(2) In any survey under this Act, a
Dominion land surveyor shall use
  * (_a_) a measuring tape that has had its true
length in terms of the Canadian measure
of length determined by National Research
Council of Canada ;
  * (_b_) a measuring tape that is of a type
approved by the Surveyor General and that
the Dominion land surveyor checks and
verifies from time to time with a certified
subsidiary measure ; or
  * (_c_) other means of measurement of length
or distance authorized by the Surveyor
General under the circumstances that he
may prescribe.
(3) Each measuring tape referred to in
paragraph (2)(a) and each subsidiary measure
referred to in paragraph (2)(6) shall, at the
expense of the owner thereof, be verified, at
least once in every four consecutive years, as
to its true length by National Research
Council of Canada and a certificate of such
verification or duplicate certificate shall be
sent to the Surveyor General.
(4) Notwithstanding the Weights and Meas
ures Act, measuring tapes and subsidiary
measures used by a Dominion land surveyor
do not require any test, inspection or
verification other than that required under
this section.
(5) Broken, kinked or otherwise damaged
measuring tapes and subsidiary measures
shall not be used. R.S., c. 26, s. 30; 1966-67, c.
60,s.7.

## PART II

## SURVEYS OF PUBLIC LANDS
General

**30.** In this Part "public lands" means any
belonging to Her Majesty in right of
or of which the Government of
has power to dispose, that are situated
in the Yukon Territory, the Northwest
Territories or in any National Park of Canada
and any lands that are surrendered lands or
reserves as defined in the Indian Act. R.S., c.
26, s. 31.
3 1. The Minister shall cause surveys to be
made of public lands upon the request of a
minister of any department of the Government
of Canada administering such lands and may
do so in any other case in which he deems it
to be expedient. R.S., c. 26, s. 32.

**32.** (1) No person, other than a Dominion
land surveyor, shall survey public lands that
are situated in the Northwest Territories or in
the Yukon Territory.
(2) A Dominion land surveyor or any other
surveyor authorized by the Surveyor General
may survey public lands that are situated in
a National Park of Canada or lands that are
surrendered lands or reserves as defined in
the Indian Act, but, where surveys of such
public lands affect or are likely to affect the
rights of landowners of adjoining lands that
are not public lands, the surveys shall be
made by a surveyor who holds a valid and
subsisting certificate, diploma, commission or
other document entitling him to survey lands
in the province in which such surveys are
made. R.S., c. 26, s. 33.
Surveys

**33.** (1) Except where otherwise directed by
the Minister, public lands shall be laid out in
quadrilateral townships.
(2) The lines bounding townships on the
east and west sides shall be meridians and
those on the north and south sides shall be
chords to parallels of latitude.
(3) Townships shall be numbered in regular
order northerly from the forty-ninth parallel
of latitude and shall lie in ranges numbered
east and west from the principal meridian,
that is the meridian drawn northerly from the
forty-ninth parallel of latitude in about west
longitude ninety-seven degrees, twenty-seven
minutes and twenty-eight point four seconds,
and in ranges numbered from such other
initial meridians as the Minister orders to be
established and styled the second, third,
fourth meridian and so on according to their
order in number westward from the principal
meridian and in similar fashion easterly from
the principal meridian or from the second
meridian east as the Minister may order. R.S.,
c. 26, s. 34.

**34.** (1) Townships shall be given their
prescribed width on the base lines referred to
in subsection (2) and the meridian between
townships shall be drawn across such base
lines northward and southward to the depth
of two townships therefrom to the correction
lines referred to in subsection (3).
(2) The forty-ninth parallel of latitude
shall be the first base line used for townships
numbered one; the second base line shall be
between townships four and five; the third
between townships eight and nine ; the fourth
between townships twelve and thirteen and so
on northerly in regular succession.
(3) Correction lines are those lines upon
which allowance is made for the jog resulting
from the convergence of meridians and shall
run east and west between townships and
midway between the base lines, that is to say
correction lines shall lie between townships
two and three, six and seven, ten and eleven
and so on. R.S., c. 26, s. 35.

**35.** (1) Each township shall contain thirty-
six sections, each section being as nearly one
square mile as the convergence of meridians
permits, together with such road allowances
of number and widths as the Minister may
prescribe.
(2) Sections shall be bounded and numbered
as shown in the following diagram :
(3) Subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, each section shall be divided into
quarter-sections containing one hundred and
sixty acres more or less.
(4) To facilitate the description for letters
patent of less than a quarter section, each
section shall be taken to be divided into
quarter quarter-sections, each of forty acres
more or less, which shall be styled legal
subdivisions and numbered as shown in the
following diagram :
North
West Quest
on the correction lines from the north and
shall be allowed in the ranges of quarter-
sections adjoining the correction lines and
north and south respectively of them, except
in the case of the north and south error in
townships between the first and second base
lines, which error shall be left in the last
quarter-section adjoining the first base line.
R.S.,c. 26,8.37.

**37.** In the survey of a township, the east
and west deficiency or surplus shall be equally
distributed among all the quarter-sections
involved ; but the Minister may order that
such deficiency or surplus be allowed in the
range of quarter-sections adjoining the west
boundary of the township. R.S., c. 26, s. 38.

**38.** Where it is necessary to establish a
division line between two sections, the
Dominion land surveyor shall connect the
opposite true section corners. R.S., c. 26, s. 39.

**39.** The dimensions and areas of irregular
quarter-sections shall, in all cases, be returned
by the surveyor at their actual measurements
and contents, but, where road allowances are
not between but through sections, the area
reserved for such road allowances shall not be
included in the area returned for a quarter-
section or other parcel of land. R.S., c. 26,
s. 40.

**40.** (1) Unless otherwise provided in this
section, a single row of monuments to indicate
the corners of townships, sections and quarter-
sections shall be placed on the survey lines
thereof.
(2) Monuments on north and south lines
shall be placed on the west limits of road
allowances, if any, and monuments on the
east and west lines shall be placed on the
south limits of road allowances, if any, and
in all cases shall fix and govern the position
of the boundary corners of the adjoining
townships, sections or quarter-sections on the
opposite side of the road allowances if any.
(3) Monuments in respect of the corners of
towns j1 j pS) Sect i ns and quarter-sections that
the correction line and, where a road allowance
is laid out along a correction line, the
monuments shall be placed in the limit of the
road lying alongside the lands that such
monuments define. R.S., c. 26, s. 41.

**41.** Notwithstanding the foregoing sec
tions, the Minister may, in any case where
the ordinary mode of survey is impracticable,
difficult or undesirable, by reason of the
existence of water courses, mountains or for
any other reason that he deems sufficient,
direct that public lands be surveyed, laid out
and defined in any manner, by any method
of surveying and with any description that
he considers desirable in the circumstances
affecting such lands. R.S., c. 26, s. 42.

**42.** (1) The Minister may establish a
Coordinated Survey Area within any lands
dealt with in this Act or alter any such Area
by a notice published in the Canada Gazette.
(2) Notwithstanding sections 33 to 40, the
positions of all new monuments placed and
of all monuments that are relevant to the
placement of new monuments within a
Coordinated Survey Area shall be determined
by surveyed connection to reference points
prescribed for that purpose and shall be
expressed in terms of the system of coordinates
prescribed for the Area, in accordance with
the instructions of the Surveyor General. 1966-
67, c. 60, s. 8.
Plans

**43.** (i) plans of public lands that are
surveyed under this Part shall be plotted,
under the direction of the Surveyor General,
from the surveyor s field notes and other
documents relating to the survey.
(2) The plans shall show the direction and
length of boundaries and the nature and
position of the boundary monuments of the
quarter-sections or other parcels of land laid
out.
(3) The Surveyor General shall indicate his
confirmation on such plans, if he is satisfied
that the survey has been carried out in
conformity with this Act and that the survey
and plans are satisfactory to the minister of
the department of the Government of Canada
administering the public lands in respect of
which the survey was made.
(4) Upon confirmation by the Surveyor
General the plans shall be deemed to be
official plans under this Act.
(5) No survey of public lands under this
Part shall be deemed to be completed until
the plans thereof have been confirmed under
this section.
(6) Where the Surveyor General finds that
a plan that has been confirmed under this
section has been improperly or incorrectly
plotted from the surveyor s field notes and
other documents relating to the survey or that
there is an omission, clerical error or other
defect in the plan, he may cause a new plan
to be plotted from the surveyor s field notes
and other documents relating to the survey
or a new plan to be made correcting the
omission, clerical error or other defect.
(7) The new plan referred to in subsection
(6) shall, after confirmation thereof by the
Surveyor General, be deemed to be the official
plan under this Act of the lands thereby
affected and shall be substituted for all, or
corresponding portions of all, former official
plans of the lands thereby affected. R.S., c.
26, s. 43 ; 1966-67, c. 60, s. 9.

**44.** The Minister shall cause a copy of an
official plan under this Act to be sent to the
registrar of deeds or of land titles of the
county, district or other registration division
in which the lands are situated for filing in
the registry or land titles office of that county,
district or other registration division. R.S., c.
26, s. 44.

**45.** The Surveyor General may, for
administrative purposes, make such plans of
public lands as he deems expedient but plans
made under this section need not be confirmed
under section 43 or sent to a registrar under
section 44. R.S., c. 26, s. 45.
Boundaries

**46.** (1) In this section, "public lands"
public lands situated in the Northwest
Territories or in the Yukon Territory.
(2) All boundary lines of townships, sec
tions, legal subdivisions or other authorized
subdivisions of public lands that are defined
by monuments in surveys made under this
Part shall, after confirmation of the plans by
the Surveyor General, be the true boundary
lines of those townships, sections, legal
subdivisions or other authorized subdivisions,
whether they are or are not found to contain,
upon admeasurement, the exact area or
dimensions described or expressed in a plan,
letters patent, grant or other instrument
affecting such public lands.
(3) Each township, section, legal subdivi
sion, other authorized subdivision, or any
aliquot part of any of them, of public lands
shall consist of the width as marked by the
true boundary lines whether or not a quantity
or measure expressed in a plan, letters patent,
grant or other instrument affecting such
public lands is greater or less than such width.
(4) The true boundary lines of roads, streets,
lanes or commons in public lands shall be the
boundary lines defined by monuments placed
in the survey of those public lands.
(5) Every Dominion land surveyor em
ployed to make surveys of roads, streets, lanes
or commons in public lands in any town,
village or settlement shall, in so far as they
are applicable, follow the provisions of this
Part governing the making of township
surveys.
(6) All allowances laid out in surveys of
roads, streets, lanes or commons in public
lands in any town, village or settlement shall
be public highways or commons. R.S., c. 26,
s. 46.
Resurveys

**47.** (1) Public lands may be resurveyed
this Part
  * (_a_) for the purposes of correcting errors or
supposed errors or re-establishing lost monu
ments; or
(6) at the request of the member of Her
Majesty s Privy Council for Canada charged
with administering the public lands in
respect of which the resurvey is to be made.
(2) Plans of public lands that are resurveyed
shall be dealt with in accordance with this
Part and shall, after confirmation thereof by
the Surveyor General, be deemed to be the
official plans under this Act of the lands
thereby affected and shall be substituted for
all, or corresponding portions of all, former
official plans of the lands thereby affected.
R.S., c. 26, s. 47; 1966-67, c. 60, s. 10.

## PART III

## SPECIAL SURVEYS OF TERRITORIAL

## LANDS
Scope and administration

**48.** In this Part
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development ;
"territorial lands" means any lands situated
in the Northwest Territories or in the Yukon
Territory. R.S., c. 26, s. 48; 1953-54, c. 4, s.
12 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.
Special surveys

**49.** Special surveys of territorial lands may
be made f r ^ r a11 f the following
purposes :
  * (_a_) the correction of errors or supposed
errors in existing surveys or plans ;
(6) the subdivision of land not previously
subdivided or the showing of divisions of
land not previously or correctly shown on
an existing plan of subdivision ;
  * (_c_) fixing the location or width of roads or
highways ;
  * (_d_) establishing any boundary lines the
positions of which, due to incorrect placing
or loss or obliteration of monuments
defining the same on the ground, have
become doubtful or difficult of being
ascertained; and
  * (_e_) any other purpose deemed necessary by
the Minister. R.S., c. 26, s. 49.

**50.** (1) The Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources shall cause a special survey of
territorial lands to be made when requested
to do so by the Minister.
(2) The Surveyor General, subject to the
direction of the Minister of Energy, Mines
and Resources, has the management of special
surveys.
(3) No person, other than a Dominion land
surveyor, shall make a special survey.
(4) A special survey shall be made by a
Dominion land surveyor in accordance with
the instructions given to him by the Surveyor
General and all sections of this Act with
respect to the powers, duties and obligations
of Dominion land surveyors and to the
making of surveys apply, mutatis mutandis, to
special surveys. R.S., c. 26, s. 50; 1966-67, c.
25, s. 45.
Procedure of special surveys
5 j. (i) Upon completion of a special
survey, the surveyor shall send all journals,
field notes and other documents relating to
the survey to the Surveyor General who shall
direct the plotting of the plan of the lands so
sun-eyed.
(2) The Surveyor General shall sign the
plan and forward it, together with such
supporting documents as he thinks necessary,
to the Minister. R.S., c. 26, s. 51.

**52.** (1) Upon receiving the plan from the
Surveyor General, the Minister shall appoint
a Commissioner to inquire into and report on
any complaints that may be made against the
special survey or plan.
(2) Hearings of the Commissioner shall be
held in or as near as practicable to the locality
in which the special survey has been made.
(3) The Minister shall cause to be published
in the Canada Gazette and in a newspaper, if
any, in the locality in which the special
survey has been made a notice setting forth :
  * (_a_) a description of the scope and purposes
of the special survey and the lands affected
thereby ;
(6) his declaration that the special survey
and plan are the true and correct survey
and plan of the lands thereby affected, that
all boundaries and lines fixed by the survey
and plan are the true boundaries and lines,
whether of roads, streets, lanes, rivers or
creeks or as between adjoining owners or
between adjoining lots and whether or not
such boundaries and lines were in fact
before such declaration the true boundaries
and lines and that the special survey and
plan shall be substituted for all, or
corresponding portions of all, former surveys
or plans of the lands affected that have
been theretofore registered ;
  * (_c_) the name of the Commissioner appoint
ed by him and the time and place at which
the Commissioner will hear complaints;
and
  * (_d_) that each person who has an interest in
land affected by the special survey and
plan and who desires to complain against
the survey or the plan shall deliver, at least
thirty days before the date set for the
Commissioner s hearing, to the Minister a
written statement setting forth the nature
and grounds of his complaint. R.S., c. 26,
s. 52.

**53.** Where no complaints are received
pursuant to paragraph 52(3)(d)&amp;gt; the Minister
shall return the plan to the Surveyor General
to be approved and confirmed by him. R.S.,
c. 26, s. 53.

**54.** (1) Where complaints are received pur
suant to paragraph 52(3)(d), the Commissioner
shall hear them at the time and place set out
in the notice published pursuant to paragraph
52(3)(c), but may, in his discretion, adjourn
the hearing upon giving due notice to the
complainants.
(2) The Commissioner shall hear only those
complaints of which written notice has been
given to the Minister but may, for this
purpose, receive any evidence he thinks
call any witnesses and exercise any of
powers given to a commissioner appointed
under the Inquiries Act.
(3) The Commissioner shall, upon comple
of the hearing, report his findings and
to the Minister. R.S., c. 26,

**54.**

**55.** (1) The Minister shall, after receiving
Commissioner s report, decide whether
the plan and whether any of the matters set
forth in the declaration referred to in
paragraph 52(3)(6) should be approved or
amended, varied or altered as a result of the
complaints.
(2) The Minister shall prepare a notice of
decision setting forth
  * (_a_) that he has received the Commissioner s
report ;
(6) his decision as to the disposition of the
complaints and the resulting changes, if
any, in the plan and in any of the matters
set forth in the declaration referred to in
paragraph 52(3)(6) ;
  * (_c_) that any person to whom the notice of
decision is mailed has a right of appeal
from the decision to the Territorial Court
in the Northwest Territories or in the Yukon
Territory, as the case may be, within sixty
days after the date of the notice ; and
  * (_d_) that any person who appeals from the
decision is required to serve the Minister
with a notice of appeal within the time
referred to in paragraph (c).
(3) The Minister shall cause a copy of the
notice of decision to be mailed by registered
mail to each of the following persons at his
latest known address :
  * (_a_) persons whose complaints have been
heard by the Commissioner pursuant to
section 54 ; and
(6) persons whose interests in land affected
by the special survey and plan are, in the
opinion of the Minister, affected by his
decision under this section to an extent that
differs in any way from the extent to which
they were affected by the declaration
referred to in paragraph 52(3)(6).
(4) Any person to whom a notice of decision
is mailed under this section may, within sixty
days after the date of the notice of decision
and if within that time such person serves the
Minister with a notice of appeal, appeal from
the decision of the Minister to the Territorial
Court in the Northwest Territories or in the
Yukon Territory, as the case may be. U.S., c.
26, s. 55.

**56.** Where all persons who have a right of
appeal under section 55 have submitted
withdrawals of their complaints or
have notified the Minister in writing that
they do not intend to appeal, as the case may
be, the Minister shall return the plan as
approved or amended, varied or altered by
him to the Surveyor General for his approval
and confirmation. R.S., c. 26, s. 56.

**57.** Where there is no appeal from the
decision of the Minister within the time
limited therefor, the Minister shall return the
plan as approved or amended, varied or
altered by him to the Surveyor General for
his approval and confirmation. R.S., c. 26,
s. 57.

**58.** Where an appeal is taken from the
decision of the Minister, the court hearing the
appeal has full power to confirm, amend,
alter or vary the decision of the Minister and
may direct that the plan be accordingly
confirmed, amended, altered or varied by the
Surveyor General and the Surveyor General
shall confirm the plan as directed. R.S., c. 26,
s. 58.

**59.** (1) The Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources shall send to the registrar of land
titles of the registration district in which the
lands affected thereby are situated for filing
in the appropriate land titles office, a copy
of
  * (_a_) the plan confirmed by the Surveyor
General under section 53 together with the
accompanying declaration referred to in
paragraph 52(3)(6),
(6) the plan confirmed by the Surveyor
General under section 56 together with the
accompanying notice of decision referred to
in subsection 55(2),
  * (_c_) the plan confirmed by the Surveyor
General under section 57 together with the
accompanying notice of decision referred to
in subsection 55(2), or
  * (_d_) the plan as confirmed, amended, altered
or varied by the Surveyor General pursuant
to the judgment on appeal under section 58
together with the accompanying certified
copy of the judgment,
as the case may require.
(2) Upon filing in the appropriate land
titles office, the plan and accompanying
documents referred to in subsection (1) shall
deemed to be substituted for all, or
corresponding portions of all, former surveys
or plans of the lands thereby affected that
have been theretofore registered and shall
govern all boundaries of the lands thereby
affected. R.S., c. 26, s. 59 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**60.** All original plans, field notes, journals
or other documents relating to special surveys
sent by the Surveyor General to the Minister
for his decision or used in evidence on appeal
or otherwise leaving the custody of the
Surveyor General shall be returned to his
custody. R.S., c. 26, s. 60.

## PART IV

## GENERAL
General power to survey

**61.** (1) Subject to this Act, the Minister
may, if in his opinion a survey thereof under
the management of the Surveyor General is
required, cause a survey to be made of any
lands belonging to Her Majesty in right of
Canada or of which the Government of
Canada has power to dispose, but where
surveys of such lands affect or are likely to
affect the rights of landowners of adjoining
lands, the surveys shall be made by a surveyor
who holds a valid and subsisting certificate,
diploma, commission or other document
entitling him to survey lands in the province
in which such surveys are made.
(2) The provisions of this Act relating to
surveys apply, mutatis mutandis, to surveys
made under subsection (1). R.S., c. 26, s. 61.
Evidence

**62.** (1) A copy certified by the Minister or
the Surveyor General or any person authorized
to do so by either of them as a true copy of
any record, document, plan, book or paper
belonging to or deposited with the Surveyor
General with respect to a survey of lands
(2) Lithographed or other copies of maps
or pl , ans purporting ,. to , be issued , or published , ,. , ,
by the Department of Energy, Mines and
Resources and to bear a lithographed or
copied signature of the Minister or Surveyor
General are, in all actions or other legal
proceedings involving such lands, evidence of
the original map or plan and its contents.
R.S., c. 26, s. 62; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 41.

**63.** Unless otherwise provided in this Act,
an oath, affidavit, declaration or affirmation
required to be taken under this Act may be
taken before any judicial officer, notary
public, commissioner for taking affidavits or
Dominion land surveyor or before any other
person thereunto authorized by the Minister.
R.S., c. 26, s. 63.

**64.** The Minister may require any state-
ment made in respect of surveys under this
Act to be verified by oath, affidavit, declara
tion or affirmation. R.S., c. 26, s. 64.
Offences and penalties

**65.** Every person against whom a warrant
is issued under subsection 26(5) is guilty of an
offence and is liable on summary conviction
to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months, or to both. R.S., c. 26, s. 65.

**66.** Every person who interrupts, molests
or hinders a surveyor in the performance of
his duties with respect to a survey under this
Act is guilty of an offence and is liable upon
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
fifty dollars or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two months, or to both. R.S., c.
26, s. 66.

**67.** (1) Every person who, knowingly and
wilfully, pulls down, alters, defaces or removes
any monument erected, planted or placed by
a surveyor in carrying out his duties under
exceeding one hundred dollars or to impris
onment for a term not exceeding three
months, or to both; or
(6) on conviction under indictment, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding
seven years.
(2) Ever}- person who, knowingly and
wilfully, has in his possession or custody any
monument is guilty of an offence and is liable
on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months, or to both.
(3) This section does not apply to the
alteration, removal, possession and custody
of monuments by any surveyor authorized to
carry out surveys under this Act or by other
persons with the permission of such surveyor
or who otherwise necessarily handle such
monuments in connection with surveys under
this Act. R.S., c. 26, s. 67.
