Parliament Act. R.S., c. 166, s. 1.

**2.** All books, paintings, maps and other
effects that are in the joint possession of the
Senate and House of Commons of Canada,
or are hereafter added to the existing
collection, are vested in Her Majesty, for the
use of both Houses of Parliament, and shall
be kept in a suitable portion of the Parliament
buildings appropriated for that purpose. R.S.,
c. 166,s.2.

**3.** The direction and control of the Library
of Parliament, and of the officers and servants
connected therewith, is vested in the Speaker
of the Senate and the Speaker of the House
of Commons for the time being, assisted,
during each session, by a joint committee to
be appointed by the two Houses. R.S., c. 166,
s.3.

**4.** The Speakers of the two Houses of
Parliament, assisted by the joint committee,
may, from time to time, make such orders
and regulations for the government of the
Library, and for the proper expenditure of
moneys voted by Parliament for the purchase
of books, maps or other articles to be deposited
therein, as to them seem meet, subject to the
approval of the two Houses of Parliament.
R.S., c. 166, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
commission under the Great Seal appoint a
Parliamentary Librarian to hold office during
pleasure.
(2) The Parliamentary Librarian has the
of a deputy head of a department and,
to section 3, has the control and
management of the Library.
(3) The Governor in Council may by
commission under the Great Seal appoint an
Associate Parliamentary Librarian to hold
office during pleasure who, in addition to any
duties defined in respect of his office under
section 9, shall execute and perform the duties
and functions of Parliamentary Librarian
during his absence, illness or other incapacity
or during a vacancy in the office of
Parliamentary Librarian. 1955, c. 35, s. 1.

**6.** Such other officers, clerks and servants
as are authorized by law and requisite for the
service of the Library may be appointed in
the manner prescribed by law to hold office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 166, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Each of the librarians shall receive
the salary that he is by law authorized to
receive.
(2) The salaries of the other officers, clerks
and servants of the Library shall be fixed
respectively according to the scale therefor by
law provided. R.S., c. 166, s. 7.
g. The salaries of the officers and servants
of the Library of Parliament, and any casual
expenses connected therewith, shall be paid
out of moneys provided by Parliament for
that purpose. R.S., c. 166, s. 8.

**9.** The Parliamentary Librarian, the
Associate Parliamentary Librarian and the
other officers and servants of the Library of
Parliament are responsible for the faithful
discharge of their official duties, as those
duties are defined by regulations agreed upon
by the Speakers of the two Houses, and
concurred in by the joint committee on the
Library. 1955, c. 35, s. 2.

**10.** The supply of stationery required for
the use of the Library shall be furnished by
the Department of Supply and Services, and
charged to the Houses of Parliament. R.S., c.
166, s. 10; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.
