Seamen Compensation Act. R.S., c. 178, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"accident" includes a wilful and an intentional
act, not being the act of the seaman, and a
fortuitous event occasioned by a physical
or natural cause ;
"Board" means the Merchant Seamen Com
pensation Board established by this Act ;
"compensation" includes medical and hospital
expenses and any other benefits, expenses
or allowances authorized by this Act ;
"dependants" means such of the members of
the family of a seaman as were wholly or
partly dependent upon his earnings at the
time of his death, or who but for the
incapacity due to the accident would have
been so dependent ;
"employer" includes every person having any
seaman in his service under a contract of
hiring or apprenticeship, written or oral,
express or implied ;
"invalid" means physically or mentally
incapable of earning;
"medical aid" means the medical, surgical
and dental aid and hospital and skilled
nursing services and the artificial member
or members and apparatus and repair
mentioned in subsection 44(1) ;
means the Minister of Labour;
means every person, except pilots,
apprenticed pilots and fishermen, employed
or engaged on
  * (_a_) a ship registered in Canada, or
(6) a ship chartered by demise to a person
resident in Canada or having his principal
place of business in Canada,
when such ship is engaged in trading on a
foreign voyage or on a home-trade voyage
as these voyages are defined in the Canada
Shipping Act; and, if so ordered by the
Governor in Council, includes a seaman
engaged in Canada and employed on a
ship that is registered outside Canada and
operated by a person resident in Canada or
having his principal place of business in
Canada when such ship is so engaged ;
"ship" means any ship or vessel as defined in
the Canada Shipping Act. R.S., c. 178, s. 2;
1952-53, c. 16, s. 7.

## MERCHANT SEAMEN COMPENSATION BOARD

**3.** (1) There shall be a Board to be known
as the Merchant Seamen Compensation Board
consisting of three members appointed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members of the Board to be
chairman and one to be vice-chairman.
(3) The chairman, and in his absence the
vice-chairman, shall preside at the meetings
of the Board.
(4) A member of the Board holds office
during pleasure and shall be paid such salary
as the Governor in Council may fix.
(5) When a member of the Board is unable
at any time to perform the duties of his office
by reason of absence or temporary incapacity
the Governor in Council may appoint a
temporary substitute member upon such terms
and conditions as the Governor in Council
may prescribe.
(6) Two members of the Board constitute a
(7) In all proceedings of the Board the
of the majority of the members govern.
(8) At any meeting of the Board where
only two of the members are present all
questions upon which an agreement cannot
be reached shall be referred for decision to a
meeting of the full Board.
(9) The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, employ such
professional, technical or other officers, clerks
and employees as it deems necessary for the
proper conduct of its business and fix their
remuneration. R.S., c. 178, s. 3.

## SCOPE

**4.** No compensation is payable under this
Act,
  * (_a_) where a seaman or his dependants are
entitled to claim compensation under the
Government Employees Compensation Act or
under any provincial workmen s compensa
tion law, or
(6) where a seaman is or his dependants are
entitled to claim compensation under the
Order in Council of the 30th day of April
1942 (P.C. 104/3546), or any statute or law
that provides similar benefits. R.S., c. 178,
s. 4.

**5.** (1) Where an accident happens in respect
of which a seaman or his dependants are
entitled to claim compensation under the law
of any foreign country, they are bound to
elect whether they will claim compensation
under such law or under this Act, and to give
notice of such election, and if such election is
not made and notice not given it shall be
presumed that they have elected not to claim
compensation under this Act.
(2) Notice of the election under subsection
(1) shall be given to the Board within three
months after the happening of the accident
or in case it results in death, within three
(3) No compensation is payable in respect
of any accident mentioned in subsection (1)
unless the seaman or his dependants submit
to the Board, in a form approved by the
Board, a waiver of all claims for compensation
under the foreign law referred to in that
subsection. R.S., c. 178, s. 5.

**6.** This Act applies to accidents happening
within or outside Canada. R.S., c. 178, s. 6.

## COMPENSATION

**7.** (]) Trig employer of a seaman injured
by reason of an accident arising out of and in
the course of his employment shall pay
compensation in the manner and to the extent
provided by this Act, except where the injury
  * (_a_) does not disable the seaman for a period
of at least three days from earning full
wages at the work at which he was
employed ; or
(6) is attributable solely to the serious and
wilful misconduct of the seaman unless the
injury results in death or serious disable
ment.
(2) Where compensation for disability is
payable, it shall be computed and be payable
from the date of the disability. R.S., c. 178, s.
7; 1952-53, c. 16, s. 8; 1964-65," c. 45, s. 1.

**8.** Except with the approval of the Board
the amount of compensation payable under
this Act is not subject to any deduction or
abatement by reason or on account of or in
respect of any matter or thing whatever except
in respect of any sums of money that have
been paid by the employer to the seaman on
account of the injury received by the seaman,
which sum or sums shall be deducted from
the amount of the compensation. R.S., c. 178,
s. 8.

**9.** Except with the approval of the Board,
the amount of compensation payable under
this Act is not capable of being assigned,
charged or attached and shall not pass to any
other person by operation of law nor shall
any claim be set off against it. R.S., c. 178, s. 9.

**10.** It is not competent for a seaman to
with his employer to waive or to forego
of the benefits to which he or his
are or may become entitled under
this Act and every agreement to that end is
absolutely void. R.S., c. 178, s. 10.

**11.** No action lies for the recovery of
compensation payable under this Act but all
claims for compensation shall be heard and
determined by the Board. R.S., c. 178, s. 11.

**12.** The right to compensation provided
^ tn ^ s ^ ct ^ s * n ^ eu ^ a ^ rights and rights
of action, statutory or otherwise, to which a
seaman or his dependants are or may be
entitled against the employer of such seaman
for or by reason of any accident happening
to him while in the employment of such
employer, and no action lies in respect thereof.
R.S.,c. 178, s. 12.

**13.** Any party to an action may apply to
the Board for adjudication and determination
of the que stion of the plaintiff s right to
compensation under this Act, or as to whether
the right to bring the action is taken away by
this Act, and such adjudication and determi
nation is final and conclusive. R.S., c. 178, s.

**13.**

**14.** The Board has exclusive jurisdiction
to examine into, hear and determine all
matters and questions arising under this Act
and as to any matter or thing in respect of
which any power, authority or discretion is
conferred upon the Board, and the action or
decision of the Board thereon is final and
conclusive and is not open to question or
review in any court, and no proceedings by or
before the Board shall be restrained by
injunction, prohibition or other process or
proceeding in any court or be removable by
certiorari or otherwise into any court. R.S., c.
178, s. 14.
15, Nothing in section 14 prevents the
-r&amp;gt; Board i from / reconsidering i any matter &amp;lt;.u that * has u
been dealt with by it or from rescinding,
altering or amending any decision or order
previously made, all of which the Board has
authority to do. R.S., c. 178, s. 15.

**16.** In any matter or thing arising under
this Act the Board has the power of summoning
before it any witnesses, and of requiring them
to give evidence on oath, or on solemn
affirmation if they are persons entitled to
affirm in civil matters, and orally or in
writing, and to produce such documents and
things as the Board deems requisite and the
Board has the same power to enforce the
attendance of witnesses and to compel them
to give evidence as is vested in any court of
record in civil cases. R.S., c. 178, s. 16.

**17.** The decision of the Board shall be
upon the real merits and justice of the case
and it is not bound to follow strict legal
precedent. R.S., c. 178, s. 17.

**18.** The decisions and findings of the
Board upon all questions of law or fact are
final and conclusive. R.S., c. 178, s. 18.

**19.** The Board may award such sum as it
may deem reasonable to the successful party
to a contested claim for compensation or to
any other contested matter as compensation
for the expenses he has been put to by reason
of or incidental to the contest, and an order
of the Board for the payment by any employer
of any sum so awarded when filed in the
manner provided by section 20 becomes a
judgment of the court in which it is filed and
may be enforced accordingly. R.S., c. 178, s.

**19.**

**20.** An order of the Board for the payment
of compensation by an employer or any other
order of the Board for the payment of money
made under the authority of this Act or a
district in which the employer resides or
on business or if the employer resides
carries on business in the Province of
Quebec, with the clerk of the Superior Court
of Quebec, and may be enforced as a judgment
of that Court. R.S., c. 178, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Where a seaman is not a resident
of Canada and by the law of the place or
country in which he resides compensation in
respect of accidents is payable and an accident
happens in respect of which he is entitled
under this Act to receive compensation for
permanent total disability or permanent
partial disability, then notwithstanding any
thing in this Act the amount of compensation
payable under this Act shall not exceed the
amount of compensation that would be
payable had the accident happened in the
place or country in which he resides.
(2) Where a dependant of any seaman is
not a resident of Canada he is not entitled to
compensation under this Act unless by the
law of the place or country in which he resides
the dependants of a seaman to whom an
accident happens in such place or country if
resident in Canada would be entitled to
compensation and where such dependants
would be entitled to compensation under such
law the compensation to which the non
resident dependant is entitled under this Act
shall not be greater than the compensation
payable in the like case under that law. R.S.,
c. 178, s. 21.

**22.** Notwithstanding section 21 such com
pensation or such sum in lieu of compensation
may be awarded to any seaman who is not a
resident of Canada or any such non-resident
dependant as the Board may deem proper
but the compensation or sum in lieu of
compensation shall not in any case exceed
the amount of compensation provided under
this Act. R.S., c. 178, s. 22.

**23.** (1) Where an accident happens to a
. .
/ i i r i
seaman arising out of and in the course 01 his
employment under such circumstances as
entitled him or his dependants to an action
against some person other than his co-
his employer, the servants or
of his employer, the seaman or
dependants if entitled to compensation
this Act may claim such compensation
may bring such action.
(2) Where an action is brought and less is
recovered and collected than the amount of
the compensation to which the seaman or his
dependants are entitled under this Act the
difference between the amount recovered and
collected and the amount of such compensa
tion shall be payable as compensation to such
seaman or his dependants.
(3) Where the seaman or his dependants
elect to claim compensation under this Act
the employer is subrogated to the rights of
the seaman or his dependants and may
maintain an action in his or their names or in
the name of the employer against the person
against whom the action lies.
(4) Notice of the election shall be given to
the employer within three months after the
happening of the accident or in case it results
in death within three months after the death
or within such longer period as either before
or after the expiration of such three months
the Board may allow.
(5) No seaman entitled to compensation
under this Act or the dependants of such
seaman have a right of action against an
employer who is subject to this Act. R.S., c.
178, s. 23.

**24.** (1) Subject to subsection (4), compen
sation shall not be payable unless
  * (_a_) notice of the accident is given as soon
as practicable after the happening of it and
before the seaman has voluntarily left the
employment in which he was injured, and
(6) the claim for compensation is made
within six months from the happening of
the accident or in case of death within six
months from the time of death.
(2) The notice shall give the name and
address of the seaman and is sufficient if it
in ordinary language the cause of the
and where the accident happened.
(3) The notice may be served by delivering
it at or sending it by registered mail addressed
to the place of business or the residence of
the employer, or where the employer is a
body of persons, corporate or unincorporate,
by delivering it, or sending it by registered
mail, addressed to the employer, at the office
or if there are more offices than one at any
of the offices of such body of persons.
(4) Failure to give the prescribed notice or
to make the claim, or any defect or inaccuracy
in a notice does not bar the right to
compensation if in the opinion of the Board
the employer was not prejudiced thereby or
it appears that the claim for compensation is
a just one and ought to be allowed. R.S., c.
178, s. 24.

## NOTICE OF ACCIDENT

**25.** (1) Every employer shall, unless
relieved by order of the Board, within sixty
days after the happening of an accident to a
seaman in his employment by which the
seaman is disabled from performing his duties
or which necessitates medical aid, notify the
Board in writing, of
  * (_a_) the happening of the accident and its
nature,
  * (_b_) the time of the accident,
  * (_c_) the name and address of the seaman,
  * (_d_) the place of the accident, and
  * (_e_) the medical aid received by the seaman
following the accident,
and shall furnish such further information
respecting any accident or claim to compen
sation as the Board may require.
(2) The Board may by order relieve any
employer i from / compliance i with i the i provisions
of subsection (1) to the extent provided in
such order.
(3) Every person who contravenes or fails
to comply with subsection (1) is guilty of an
offence and is liable on summary conviction
to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars,
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
twelve months, or to both.
(4) No proceedings shall be taken against
any person under this section without the
of the Board. R.S., c. 178, s. 25.

## MEDICAL EXAMINATION

**26.** (1) A seaman who claims compensa
tion, or to whom compensation is payable
under this Act shall, if so required by his
employer, submit himself for examination by
a duly qualified medical practitioner provided
by the employer and shall, if so required by
the Board, submit himself for examination by
a medical referee.
(2) A seaman is not required at the request
of his employer to submit himself for
examination otherwise than in accordance
with this Act.
(3) The cost of any examination made
pursuant to subsection (1) and the cost of any
reference under section 27 shall be paid by
the employer. R.S., c. 178, s. 26.

**27.** (1) Where a seaman has upon the
request of his employer submitted himself for
examination, or has been examined by a duly
qualified medical practitioner selected by
himself, and a copy of the report of the
medical practitioner as to the seaman s
condition has been furnished in the former
case by the employer to the seaman and in
the latter case by the seaman to the employer
the Board may, on the application of either
of them or of its own motion, refer the matter
to a medical referee.
(2) The medical referee to whom a reference
is made under subsection (1) or who has
examined the seaman by the direction of the
Board under subsection 26(1) shall certify to
the Board as to the condition of the seaman
and his fitness for employment, specifying
where necessary the kind of employment, and
if unfit , the cause and degree of such unf itness,
and his certificate, unless the Board otherwise
directs, is conclusive as to the matters certified.
(3) When a seaman does not submit himself
for examination when required to do so under
subsection 26(1) or on being required to do so
does not submit himself for examination to a
referee under that subsection or under
(1) of this section, or in any way
any examination, his right to
or if he is in receipt of a weekly
or other periodical payment his right to it, is
suspended until such examination has taken
place.
(4) The Board may diminish the compen
sation to which a seaman is entitled, or
suspend payment thereof, whenever the
seaman persists in dangerous and unsanitary
practices imperilling or retarding his cure and
whenever he refuses to submit to such medical
treatment as the Board on the advice of the
medical referee may deem necessary for his
cure.
(5) Subsection (4) does not apply in the
event of the seaman reasonably refusing to
submit to surgical aid. R.S., c. 178, s. 27.

## REVIEW OF COMPENSATION

**28.** Any weekly or other periodic payment
to a seaman may be reviewed at the request
of the employer or of the seaman, and on
such review the Board may put an end to or
diminish or may increase such payment to a
sum not beyond the maximum prescribed in
this Act. R.S., c. 178, s. 28.

## INSURANCE

**29.** (1) Every employer shall cover by
insurance or other means satisfactory to the
Board, the risks of compensation arising under
this Act.
(2) The Board may give notice in writing
to a collector or other chief officer of customs
that the provisions of this section have not
been complied with to the satisfaction of the
Board in respect of seamen employed on any
ship, and thereupon the collector or other
chief officer of customs shall detain that ship
until he receives notice from the Board that
he may release the ship. R.S., c. 178, s. 29.

## SCALE OF COMPENSATION

**30.** (1) ^ Where the death of a seaman results
  * (_a_) the necessary expenses of burial of the
seaman not exceeding three hundred dol
lars ;
(6) in addition to the sum mentioned in
paragraph (a) a sum not exceeding one
hundred and twenty-five dollars for neces
sary expenses for transportation and things
supplied and services rendered in connection
therewith necessitated by the transfer of
the body of a seaman from the place of
death to the place of interment ;
  * (_c_) where the expenses of burial of a seaman
are paid by an employer under Part IV of
the Canada Shipping Act, following any
accident in respect of which compensation
is payable under this Act, the amount of
such expenses shall be deducted from the
amount payable under paragraphs (a) and
(b);
  * (_d_) where the widow or invalid husband is
the sole dependant, a monthly payment of
seventy-five dollars ;
  * (_e_) where the dependants are a widow or an
invalid husband and one or more children,
a monthly payment of seventy-five dollars
with an additional monthly payment of
twenty-five dollars to be increased upon the
death of the widow or invalid husband to
thirty-five dollars
  * (_i_) for each child under the age of
eighteen years, and
  * (_ii_) with the approval of the Board, for
each child under the age of twenty-one
years who is attending school ;
(J) where the dependants are children only,
a monthly payment of thirty-five dollars
  * (_i_) to each child under the age of eighteen
years, and
  * (_ii_) with the approval of the Board, to
each child under the age of twenty-one
years who is attending school ; and
  * (_g_) where the dependants are persons other
than those mentioned in paragraphs (d), (e)
and (f), a sum reasonable and proportionate
to the pecuniary loss to such dependants
occasioned by the death, to be determined
by the Board.
(2) Where the seaman leaves no widow or
and an aunt, sister, or other suitable person
acts as foster-mother in keeping up such
household and maintaining and taking care
of the children entitled to compensation in a
manner that the Board deems satisfactory,
such foster-mother while so doing is entitled
to receive the same monthly payments of
compensation for herself and the children as
if she were the widow of the deceased, and in
such case the children s part of such payments
shall be in lieu of the monthly payments that
they would otherwise have been entitled to
receive.
(3) i n addition to any other compensation
provided for, the widow or, where the seaman
leaves no widow, the foster-mother, as
described in subsection (2), is entitled to a
lump sum of two hundred dollars.
(4) In the case provided for by paragraph
(l)(g) the payments shall continue only so
long as, in the opinion of the Board, it might
reasonably have been expected that the
seaman, had he lived, would have continued
to contribute to the support of the dependants,
and in any case under the said paragraph
compensation may be made wholly or partly
in a lump sum or by such form of payment
as the Board in the circumstances deems most
suitable.
(5) A. dependant to whom the seaman stood
in loco parentis or a dependant who stood in
loco parentis to the seaman is entitled, as the
Board may determine, to share in or receive
compensation under paragraph (l)(e), 0) or
(g).
(6) Compensation is payable to an invalid
child without regard to the age of such child,
and payments to such child shall continue
until in the opinion of the Board the child
ceases to be an invalid.
(7) Where there are both total and partial
dependants the compensation may be allotted
partly to the total and partly to the partial
dependants.
(8) Where the Board is of the opinion that
for any reason it is considered necessary or
desirable that a payment in respect of a child
not be made directly to its parent, the
may direct that the payment be made
such person or be applied in such manner
as the Board may deem most advantageous
for the child.
(9) Exclusive of the expenses of burial of
the seaman and the lump sum of two hundred
dollars referred to in subsection (3), the
compensation payable as provided by subsec
tion (1) shall not in any case exceed seventy-
five per cent of the average earnings of the
seaman mentioned in section 33, and if the
compensation payable under that subsection
would in any case exceed that percentage it
shall be reduced accordingly, and where
several persons are entitled to monthly
payments the payments shall be reduced
proportionately ; but the minimum compen
sation shall be
  * (_a_) where the widow or an invalid husband
is the sole dependant, a monthly payment
of seventy-five dollars, or if the seaman s
average earnings are less than seventy-five
dollars per month, the amount of such
earnings, and
(5) where the dependants are a widow or an
invalid husband and one or more children,
a monthly payment of one hundred dollars
for the widow or invalid husband and one
child irrespective of the amount of the
seaman s earnings, with a further monthly
payment of twenty-five dollars for each
additional child unless the total monthly
compensation exceeds the seaman s average
earnings in which case the compensation
shall be a sum equal to such earnings or
one hundred dollars, whichever is the
greater, the share for each child entitled to
compensation being reduced proportionate
ly. R.S., c. 178, s. 30; 1952-53, c. 16, s. 9;
1957, c. 9, s. 1 ; 1964-65, c. 45, s. 2.

**31.** (1) In addition to the amounts of
compensation payable under section 30 to
dependants of a seaman as a result of his
death from an injury, there shall be paid,
commencing with the month of April 1964,
  * (_a_) where the widow of the seaman is the
sole dependant, a monthly payment equal
subtracting from seventy-five dollars the
amount of any monthly payment payable
to her pursuant to section 30 ;
(6) where the dependants are a widow and
one or more children,
  * (_i_) a monthly payment equal to the
amount remaining, if any, after subtract
ing from seventy-five dollars the amount
of any monthly payment payable to that
widow pursuant to section 30, and
  * (_ii_) an additional monthly payment for
each child equal to the amount remaining,
if any, after subtracting from twenty-five
dollars the amount of any monthly
payment payable pursuant to section 30
for that child, such payment to be
increased upon the death of the widow to
an amount equal to the amount remain
ing, if any, after subtracting from thirty-
five dollars the amount of any monthly
payment payable pursuant to section 30
to that child; and
  * (_c_) where the dependants are children only,
a monthly payment to each child equal to
the amount remaining, if any, after sub
tracting from thirty-five dollars the amount
of any monthly payment payable pursuant
to section 30 to that child.
(2) In addition to the amounts of compen-
sat i n payable under section 30 to or for the
dependent children of a seaman as a result of
his death from an injury incurred before the
1st day of May 1965, there shall be paid, with
the approval of the Board, to or for each
dependent child under the age of twenty-one
years who is attending school the compensa
tion that would have been payable had the
injury to the seaman from which his death
resulted occurred on or after the 1st day of
May 1965.
(3) The amounts payable pursuant to this
section shall be paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund and shall be paid subject to
the same terms and conditions as apply to
the compensation payable pursuant to the
other provisions of this Act.
(4) In this section the expression "section
30" means that section as it read at the date
of the injury to the seaman in respect of
whose resulting death compensation is paya
ble. 1964-65, c. 45, s. 6.

**32.** (1) When a dependent widow marries,
the monthly payments to her shall cease, but
she is entitled in lieu of them to a lump sum
equal to the monthly paymenls for two years,
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to pay-
ments to a widow in respect of a child or
children. R.S., c. 178, s. 31.

**33.** Where permanent total disability
results from the injury the amount of the
compensation shall be a weekly payment
during the life of the seaman equal to seventy-
five per cent of his average weekly earnings
during the previous twelve months if he has
been so long employed, but if not, then for
the period during which he has been in the
employment of his employer. 1957, c. 9, s. 2.

**34.** (j) Where permanent partial disability
i^ / , ,i "/
results from the injury the impairment of
earning capacity of the seaman shall be
estimated from the nature and degree of the
injury, and the compensation shall be a
weekly payment during the lifetime of the
seaman in the same proportion to the weekly
payment payable under section 33 as the
impairment of earning capacity is to total
earning capacity.
(2) Where the Board deems it more equita
ble, the Board may award compensation for
permanent partial disability having regard to
the difference between the average weekly
earnings of the seaman before the accident
and the average amount that he is earning or
is able to earn in some suitable employment
or business after the accident, and the
compensation may be a weekly payment of
seventy-five per cent of such difference, and
regard shall be had to the seaman s fitness to
continue the employment in which he was
injured or to adapt himself to some other
suitable occupation.
(3) The Board may compile a rating
schedule of percentages of impairment of
earning capacity for specified injuries or
mutilations that may be used as a guide in
determining the compensation payable in
permanent partial disability cases.
(4) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2),
the opinion that it would not be to the
advantage of the seaman to do so, fix an
amount to be paid to the seaman as full
compensation therefor and pay him the
amount either in one sum or in periodic
payments as the Board may direct. 1957, c. 9,
s. 3.

**35.** Where temporary total disability
results from the injury the compensation shall
be the same as that prescribed by section 33,
but is payable only so long as the disability
lasts. R.S., c. 178, s. 35.

**36.** Where temporary partial disability
results from the injury the compensation shall
be the same as that prescribed by section 34,
but is payable only so long as the disability
lasts and subsection 34(4) applies. 1957, c. 9, s.

**4.**
37, fhg amount of compensation to which
, . ,, ,
an injured seaman is entitled tor temporary
total or permanent total disability under this
Act shall not be less than twenty-five dollars
per week or, where his average earnings are
less than twenty-five dollars per week, the
amount of such earnings, and for temporary
partial or permanent partial disability a
corresponding amount in proportion to the
impairment of earning capacity. 1952-53, c.
16, s. 10; 1964-65, c. 45, s. 4.
3g. (1) Average earnings shall be computed
in such a manner as is best calculated to give
the rate per week or month at which the
seaman was remunerated but not so as in any
case to exceed the rate of five thousand
dollars per annum.
(2) Where, owing to the shortness of the
time during which the seaman was in the
employment of his employer or the casual
nature of his employment or the terms thereof,
it is impracticable to compute the rate of
remuneration as of the date of the accident,
regard may be had to the average weekly or
monthly amount which during the twelve
months previous to the accident was being
by a person in the same grade
at the same work by the same
or if there is no person so employed
then by a person in the same grade employed
in the same class of employment on a ship of
the same class.
(3) jr or t h e purpose of this section the
expression "employment by the same employ
er" means employment by the same employer
in the grade in which the seaman was
employed at the time of the accident,
uninterrupted by absence from work due to
illness or any other unavoidable cause.
(4) Where the employer was accustomed to
pay the seaman a sum to cover any special
expense entailed on him by the nature of his
employment that sum shall not be reckoned
as part of his earnings.
(5) For the purpose of this Act a War
Service Bonus paid to a seaman under the
Order in Council of the 18th day of April
1944 (P.C. 149/2705), shall not be reckoned as
part of his earnings.
(5) Where in any case it seems more
equitable, the Board may award compensa
tion, having regard to the earnings of the
seaman at the time of the accident. R.S., c.
178, s. 38; 1952-53, c. 16, s. 11 ; 1957, c. 9, s. 5;
1964-65, c. 45, s. 5.

**39.** (j) j n fixing the amount of a weekly
&amp;lt;&amp;gt; r monthly payment regard shall be had to
any payment, allowance or benefit that the
seaman may receive from his employer during
the period of his disability, including any
pension, gratuity or other allowance provided
wholly at the expense of the employer.
(2) No compensation is payable in respect
of the period during which the employer is,
under the Canada Shipping Act, or otherwise,
liable for the payment of wages and to defray
the expenses of maintenance of the injured
seaman.
(3) Any sum payable by way of compensa
tion by the owner of a ship under this Act

**40.** (1) Wherever the Board deems it advis
the payment of compensation may be
fortnightly or monthly instead of
(2) Subject to section 22, where a seaman or
dependant is not a resident of Canada or
ceases to reside therein the periods of
payments may be otherwise fixed or the
compensation commuted as the Board may
deem proper. R.S., c. 178, s. 40.

**41.** Where it is found by the Board that
the widow to whom compensation has been
awarded is a common prostitute or is openly
living with any man in the relation of husband
and wife without being married to him, the
compensation to the widow may be discon
tinued or suspended or the compensation may
be diverted in whole or in part to or for the
benefit of any other dependant or dependants
of the deceased seaman. R.S., c. 178, s. 41.

**42.** Where a seaman is entitled to compen
sation and it is made to appear to the Board
that
  * (_a_) the seaman is not residing in Canada
but his wife or child or children under
eighteen years of age are residing therein
without adequate means of support and
are, or are apt to become a charge upon the
municipality where they reside, or upon
private charity, or
(6) the seaman although residing in Canada
is not supporting his wife and children and
an order has been made against the seaman
by a court of competent jurisdiction for the
support or maintenance of his wife or
family, or for alimony,
the Board may divert the compensation in
whole or in part from the seaman for the
benefit of his wife or children. R.S., c. 178, s.

**42.**

**43.** Where a seaman or a dependant is a
minor under the age of twenty-one years or
under any other legal disability the compen
sation to which he is entitled may be paid to
such person or be applied in such manner as
the Board may deem best to his advantage.
R.S..C. 178,s.43.

## MEDICAL AID

**44.** (1) Every seaman entitled to compen
under this Act is entitled to such
medical, surgical and dental aid, and hospital
and skilled nursing services as may be
necessary as a result of the injury, and is
entitled to such artificial member or members
and apparatus and dental appliances and
apparatus as may be necessary as a result of
the injury and to have the same kept in repair
or replaced when deemed necessary.
(2) The medical aid to which a seaman is
entitled under subsection (1) shall be furnished
and paid for by his employer.
(3) Any question as to the necessity,
character and sufficiency of any medical aid
furnished or to be furnished may be referred
to the Board for a decision.
(4) The fees or charges for the medical aid
under subsection (1) shall not be more than
would be properly and reasonably charged to
the seaman if he were paying the bill himself,
but shall not, in any case where the seaman
is furnished with medical aid in Canada,
exceed the fees or charges that would be paid
in similar circumstances by the Workmen s
Compensation Board of the province in which
such medical aid was furnished.
(5) Every employer shall at his own expense
furnish to any seaman injured in his employ
ment who is in need of it, immediate
conveyance and transportation to a hospital,
or to a physician, or to the seaman s home
within a reasonable limit. R.S., c. 178, s. 44.

**45.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act
a seaman entitled to medical aid under Part
IV or Part V of the Canada Shipping Act, or
any other Act that provides similar benefits,
is not entitled to medical aid under this Act
during the period and to the extent that
medical aid is furnished under the Canada
Shipping Act, or such other Act. R.S., c. 178,

**45.**

**46.** Every physician, surgeon or hospital
official attending, consulted respecting, or
having the care of any seaman shall furnish
to the employer from time to time such
reports as may be required by the employer
in respect of that seaman, and may charge
for the preparation of such reports reasonable
fees as may be agreed upon with the employer
or in the absence of an agreement as the
Board may approve. R.S., c. 178, s. 46.

## RULES AND ORDERS

**47.** The Board may make such rules, orders
and by-laws as it may deem expedient or
necessary for regulating its procedure and for
carrying any of the purposes or provisions of
this Act into effect. R.S., c. 178, s. 47.

## REPORTS

**48.** The Board shall report, from time to
time, to the Minister, as he may require. R.S.,
c. 178, s. 48.

## COSTS OF ADMINISTRATION

**49.** All costs incurred relative to the
administration of this Act, including salaries,
expenses, fees and commissions, are chargeable
against the various employers, apportioned
on a basis to be determined by the Board.
R.S., c. 178, s. 49.

## OPERATION

**50.** The Merchant Seamen Compensation
Regulations, 1945, established by Order of the
Governor in Council made on the 17th day of
July 1945 (P.C. 4755), are deemed to have
been revoked on the 31st day of August 1946
and for the purposes of section 36 of the
Interpretation Act this Act is deemed to be
for the said Regulations. R.S., c.
178, s. 50.
