Products Industry Act. R.S., c. 172, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"adulterated" means deteriorated by the
addition of any substance to a maple
product or the substitution for any maple
product or for any part thereof of any
colourable imitation;
"colourable imitation" means cane sugar or
brown sugar of glucose or any other similar
substance or any combination of them to
which artificial maple flavour has been
added ;
"container" means bottle, can, carton, crate
or any other package ;
"inspector" means a person designated as an
inspector pursuant to section 6;
"label" means any legend or descriptive
matter or design appearing upon a maple
product or upon the container thereof and
any printed or written matter that may
accompany or pertain to such product ;
"manufacturer or packer" means a person
carrying on the business of buying maple
products and packing, bottling, or treating
them in any way preparatory to selling
them again ;
"manufacturing or packing plant" means the
plant or building and equipment used by
the manufacturer or packer in the conduct
of his business ;
product" means any product or
preparation prepared directly or indirectly
from the sap of the maple ;
maple sugar" means the solid product
resulting from the evaporation of maple
sap or maple syrup, and may be either in
solid blocks or in a more or less pulverized
form;
maple syrup" means syrup made by the
evaporation of maple sap or by the solution
of maple sugar in water;
Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
official analyst" means any chemical analyst
designated by the Minister to examine and
analyze samples of any product or substance.
R.S., c. 172, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**3.** No person shall manufacture for sale,
sell, offer, expose or have in possession for
sale any product that is a colourable imitation
of a maple product unless such product or the
container thereof is legibly marked with the
manufacturer s name and address, the ingredi
ents of such product and the words "artificially
maple flavoured". R.S., c. 172, s. 3.

**4.** No person shall manufacture for sale,
sell, offer, expose or have in possession for
sale, or ship or cause to be shipped, any maple
product that is adulterated. R.S., c. 172, s. 4.

**5.** Except as hereinbefore provided or in
the trade name or description of artificial
maple flavours and extracts, no person shall
use the word "maple" alone or in combination
with any word, letter or syllable on any label
on other than a maple product. R.S., c. 172,
s. 5.

**6.** The Minister or the Minister of Con
sumer and Corporate Affairs may designate
any person as an inspector for the purposes
of this Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**7.** Any inspector charged with the enforce
ment of this Act is empowered
  * (_a_) to enter at will and inspect any or all
buildings of whatever character in connec-
tion with any manufacturing or packing
plant, sugar camp, or any hotel, restaurant,
retail or wholesale store, warehouse, railway
car, truck, boat or other conveyance where
maple products or imitation maple products
are being manufactured or offered for sale
or being carried or held for carriage, and to
take samples of any substance purporting
to be a maple product or a colourable
imitation thereof; any sample so taken
may be paid for at current prices and sealed
in the presence of the producer, manufac
turer, proprietor or carrier or his agent ; the
sample so taken and sealed shall be sent to
the Department of Agriculture at Ottawa
for analysis or investigation; the person
from whom a sample is taken may require
that a check sample be taken, sealed and
left with him ;
  * (_b_) to examine the books or records of
manufacturing or packing plants ;
  * (_c_) to seize in any place mentioned in
paragraph (a) and seal for analysis, inspec
tion or investigation any article that he
believes to be an adulterated maple product
or intended for adulteration of any maple
product or any maple product that is not
graded, packed, marked, labelled, produced
or held in premises in compliance with this
Act or the regulations and to dispose of any
product or substance so seized as the
Minister may direct. R.S., c. 172, s. 7.
g. Any person who, or whose agent or
employee, wrongfully removes or sells or
otherwise disposes of any product or substance
that has been seized by an inspector under
authority of paragraph 7(c) or substitutes
anything therefor is guilty of an offence
under this Act. R.S., c. 172, s. 8.

**9.** Any person who obstructs an inspector
in the performance of his duties, is guilty of
offence under this Act. R.S., c. 172, s. 9.
jo. (1) All manufacturing or packing
shall apply to the Department of
at Ottawa for registration.
(2) Any manufacturing or packing plant
maple products from one province
to another or exporting such products shall
obtain a licence from the Minister.
(3) Such licence shall remain in effect until
the 31st day of March following the date of
issue but shall be renewable from year to
year ; fees for such licences and renewals shall
be fixed by the Minister.
(4) Any sugar camp from which maple
products are exported or shipped to another
province may be required by the Minister to
obtain a licence, which shall be issued without
fee.
(5) The Minister may for cause cancel or
suspend any licence already issued.
(6) Every manufacturing or packing plant
and every sugar camp shall, when licensed,
be assigned a licence number for use on labels
and containers of maple products.
(7) Records, in form prescribed by the
Minister, of all maple products purchased and
sold together with the name and address of
the vendor or purchaser, shall be kept in each
manufacturing or packing plant. R.S., c. 172,
s. 10.

**11.** Any person who unlawfully places, or
causes to be placed, any number purporting
to be a licence number issued to him under
this Act and the regulations on any label or
container on or in which any maple product,
adulterated maple product or colourable
imitation thereof is sold or offered for sale, is
guilty of an offence and is, on summary
conviction, liable to a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars and costs and not more
than three hundred dollars and costs, or to
imprisonment for not more than three months,
or to both fine and imprisonment. R.S., c.
172, s. 11.

**12.** Containers of maple products for the
retail trade shall have clearly and legibly
thereon, or upon tags or labels
attached or firmly affixed thereto,
  * (_a_) the common name of the product,
(6) the net weight of contents,
  * (_c_) the name and address of the manufac
turer or packer or of the sugar orchard, and
  * (_d_) the licence number, if any. R.S., c. 172,
s. 12.

**13.** In any prosecution under this Act or
the regulations a certificate as to the analysis
of any maple product or alleged maple
product or colourable imitation thereof signed
or purporting to be signed by an official
analyst is evidence of the facts stated in such
certificate and conclusive evidence of the
authority of the person giving or making the
same without any proof of appointment or
signature. R.S., c. 172, s. 13.

**14.** Every owner or operator of a manufac
turing or packing plant who refuses to produce
and submit, when requested by an inspector
to do so, the records referred to in subsection
10(7), for examination, or as evidence in any
action or prosecution under this Act and
regulations, is guilty of an offence under this
Act. R.S., c. 172, s. 14.

**15.** The Minister may make regulations
prescribing
  * (_a_) the duties of inspectors under this Act
and the regulations ;
  * (_b_) the types of labels or markings that
shall be used on containers of maple
products ;
  * (_c_) methods of sealing containers of maple
products ;
  * (_d_) grades and standards for maple sugar
and maple syrup or other maple products
and the conditions under which and the
locations or places where maple sugar and
maple syrup or other maple products shall
be graded ;
  * (_e_) requirements as to cleanliness and
sanitation in manufacturing or packing
plants or sugar camps ;
(/) chemical and physical properties and
requirements of maple products ;
  * (_g_) chemical or other methods of determin
ing purity of maple products for use by
official analysts-;
  * (_h_) fees for inspection and analyses of
maple products ;
  * (_i_) conditions under which samples may be
sent to the Department for analysis or
examination ; and
0) respecting any other matter deemed by
him to be necessary for the carrying out of
this Act. R.S., c. 172, s. 15.
15, All regulations made under this Act
shall be effective from the date of publication
in the Canada Gazette. R.S., c. 172, s. 16.

**17.** Except as herein otherwise provided,
any person violating any provision of this
Act, or of any regulation thereunder, is liable
on summary conviction to a fine of not less
than ten dollars and not exceeding three
hundred dollars and costs, or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three months or to
both fine and imprisonment, and for each
subsequent offence to a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars and costs, and not more
than five hundred dollars and costs, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both fine and imprisonment.
R.S., c. 172, s. 17.
jg. All fees received for analyses and all
fines imposed under this Act shall be paid to
the Receiver General. R.S., c. 172, s. 18.
