
# CHAPTER M-4
An Act respecting the reclamation and
development of marshlands in Nova
Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince
Edward Island

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Maritime
Marshland Rehabilitation Act. R.S., c. 175, s.

**1.**

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Regional Economic Expansion.
R.S., c. 175, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 102.

**3.** Subject to this Act, the Minister may,
for the reclamation and development of
marshlands in the Provinces of Nova Scotia,
New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island,
construct and reconstruct and assist those
Provinces in the construction and reconstruc
tion of dykes, aboiteaux and breakwaters.
R.S.,c. 175,s.3.

**4.** No work shall be undertaken in any
province pursuant to this Act unless
  * (_a_) the work has been recommended by an
Advisory Committee established under
section 8, and
(6) the province in which the work is to be
undertaken has entered into an agreement
with the Government of Canada prior to
the 1st day of May 1955 providing that
  * (_i_) the province will undertake the recon
ditioning and construction of the main
drainage creeks, the canals and the lateral
ditches and other complementary facili
ties required in connection with the work,
  * (_ii_) the province, either with or without
the assistance of the marshland owners,
will maintain the work in satisfactory
working condition,
  * (_iii_) the province will assume the opera
tion and maintenance of the work at such
time as the Minister may designate, and
  * (_iv_) the lands necessary for the construc
tion of the work will be acquired by and
at the expense of the province. R.S., c.
175, s. 4.

**5.** No work involving an expenditure in
excess of five thousand dollars in any fiscal
year shall be undertaken under section 3
without the consent of the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 175, s. 5.

**6.** The Minister may appoint such tempo
rary technical, professional and other officers
and employees as he may deem necessary and
expedient for carrying out the provisions of
this Act, but the salaries and expenses of such
officers and employees shall be fixed by the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 175, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Minister may purchase or rent
whatever machinery or equipment may be
required for the purposes of this Act, but no
single unit of machinery or equipment shall
be purchased for an amount in excess of five
thousand dollars without the approval of the
Governor in Council.
(2) Notwithstanding any statute or other
law, the Minister may sell any single unit of
machinery or equipment acquired for the
purposes of this Act upon such terms as he
may deem advisable, but no single unit of
machinery or equipment acquired at a cost in
excess of five hundred dollars shall be sold
without the approval of the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 175, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council may estab
lish one or more Committees to be known as
Advisory Committees whose duties shall be
to consider and advise the Minister as to the
best methods to be adopted to carry out the
purposes of this Act.
(2) The Minister may appoint one of the
members of an Advisory Committee to be the
chairman.
(3) No member of an Advisory Committee
shall receive any payment or emolument for
his services as such but each member is
entitled to be paid his actual travelling or
other expenses incurred in connection with
the work of the Advisory Committee. R.S., c.
175, s. 8.

**9.** The Minister shall annually lay before
Parliament a report of all proceedings under
this Act for the preceding fiscal year. R.S., c.
175,s.9.
