
# CHAPTER M-6
Act respecting the inspection of meats and
canned foods

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Meat and
Canned Foods Act. R.S., c. 177, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"can" and "canned fish or shellfish" includes
any hermetically sealed glass bottle, pack
age or container, and any fish or shellfish
processed or preserved in the usual way
packed in such can, bottle, package or
container ; also lobster meat cooked for sale,
fresh or frozen, and packed in a can, bottle,
package or other container, but not pre
served to keep, as is the case with lobster
meat processed or preserved in the usual
way;
"canned foods" includes foods except fish and
shellfish that have been pre-heated, cooked,
preserved, condensed, evaporated, dehy
drated, dried, or otherwise processed or
prepared for food, and are placed in any
closed can, bottle, package, or container;
"carcasses" means the carcasses of cattle,
sheep, swine, goats, game or poultry;
"dry meat" means the meat of shellfish
contained in a can that has been processed
and allowed to cool thoroughly and is
opened and upturned for not less than one
minute and not more than one and one-
half minutes so as to permit free drainage
of the liquor therefrom ;
"establishment" means any abattoir, packing
house or other premises in which animals
shellfish, or fruit, or vegetables, or any food
or food product that may be named by the
Governor in Council are prepared for food
for export or are stored for export ;
export" means export out of Canada, or out
of any province to any other province
thereof ;
farmer" means a person whose recognized
occupation is that of farming, and who
slaughters only such animals as are fed by
him on his own premises ;
fish" does not include shellfish and crus
taceans ;
food" includes every article used for food or
drink by man, and every ingredient intend
ed for mixing with the food or drink of man
for any purpose ;
inspector" or "inspecting officer" means an
inspector appointed under this Act ;
Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
shellfish" includes crustaceans. R.S., c. 177,
s. 2.

## ADMINISTRATION

**3.** The administration of any part of this
Act may be assigned by the Governor in
Council to any Minister other than the
Minister of Agriculture, and in such case the
Minister to whom such assignment is made
has the same powers with respect to the part
of this Act to him assigned as the Minister of
Agriculture has under this Act. R.S., c. 177,
s. 3.

## REGULATIONS

**4.** The Governor in Council may make
orders and regulations, not inconsistent
this Act, as to him seem necessary for
carrying out of this Act. R.S., c. 177, s. 4.
as are necessary for the carrying out
this Act. R.S.,c. 177, s. 5.

## INSPECTION AND MARKING

**6.** (1) All animals intended for slaughter
in any establishment shall be inspected as
provided by the regulations.
(2) No animal shall be allowed to enter the
parts of an establishment where slaughtering
is carried on, unless it has undergone such
inspection. R.S., c. 177, s. 6.

**7.** Every animal affected, or suspected of
being affected, with contagious or other
disease, shall be slaughtered under the
supervision of the inspector and be disposed
of as provided by the regulations. R.S., c. 177,
s. 7.

**8.** All carcasses and portions thereof of all
animals, wherever slaughtered, intended for
export , shall be inspected as provided by the
regulations. R.S., c. 177, s. 8.

**9.** Unless the Minister otherwise directs,
upon the report of an inspector, animals
owned by farmers and slaughtered by them
on their own premises, are not subject to
inspection under this Act. U.S., c. 177, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Every carcass, or portion thereof,
found to be healthy and fit for food, shall be
marked by an inspector in such manner as is
provided by the regulations.
(2) The carcass, or portion thereof, may
then be dealt with as the owner thereof sees
fit, subject to the further supervision of the
inspector. R.S., c. 177, s. 10.

**11.** (1) Every carcass, or portion or product
thereof, prepared for food in any establish
ment and packed in cans or similar receptacles,
or in any package whatever, shall be subject
by the regulations. R.S., c. 177, s.

**11.**

**12.** (i) The inspector may at any time
reinspect a carcass, or any portion or product
thereof, in order to ascertain whether, subse
quently to the first inspection thereof, it has
undergone decomposition, or has otherwise
deteriorated, or has been tampered with or
adulterated by the use of preservatives or
otherwise.
(2) Every carcass, or portion or product
thereof, sent out of an establishment, and
returned thereto for any purpose, shall not be
again sent out therefrom without reinspection.
R.S.,c. 177, s. 12.

**13.** Every carcass, or portion or product
thereof, that is found, upon inspection or
reinspection, to be unhealthy or unfit for
food, or that contains such ingredients or
preservatives as may render it unfit for food,
shall be marked by the inspector in such
manner as is provided by the regulations, and
shall thereupon be deemed to be condemned
as unfit for food and shall be disposed of as
provided by the regulations. R.S., c. 177,
s. 13.

**14.** (j) Any person slaughtering, or per
mitting the slaughtering of, animals and
selling, or offering for sale or transportation,
for food purposes, for export, a carcass, or any
portion or product thereof, that is unhealthy
or unfit for food, is guilty of an indictable
offence and liable to imprisonment for a
period of one year.
(2) Every one who is convicted of an offence
referred to in subsection (1) after a previous
conviction for the same crime is liable to
imprisonment for a period of two years. R.S.,
c. 177, s. 14.

**15.** The Governor in Council may, upon
application of the owner thereof, exempt any
establishment from the operation of sections
establishment and packed in cans or
receptacles, or in any package what
ever, are subject to inspection during the
course of preparation and packing.
(2) All such packages shall be marked with
  * (_a_) the initials of the Christian names, the
full surname, and the address, or, in the
case of a firm or corporation, the firm or
corporate name and address, of the packer,
or of the first dealer obtaining them direct
from the packer who sells or offers the said
articles for sale, and such dealer shall, upon
the request of an inspector appointed under
this Act, disclose the name of the packer of
such article ; and
(6) a true and correct description of the
contents of the package.
(3) Where it is established to the satisfaction
of the Governor in Council that such marking
would hinder the sale of any of the said
articles in foreign markets or in the markets
of Great Britain, he may exempt such articles
from the provisions of this section. R.S., c.
177, s. 16.

## FISH AND SHELLFISH

**17.** (1) Fish and shellfish intended for
canning and the canneries in which fish and
shellfish are packed shall be inspected as
provided by the regulations.
(2) The Governor in Council may from
time to time prescribe a tariff of fees that
shall be charged for the inspection of canned
fish and shellfish. R.S., c. 177, s. 17.

**18.** (1) All fish and shellfish packed in
cans are subject to such inspection as may be
provided by this Act and the regulations
during the whole course of preparation and
packing and thereafter as required by the
regulations.
(2) All such cans shall be labelled with
  * (_a_) the Christian names or the initials
thereof, the full surname and address, or,
in the case of a firm or corporation, the
firm or corporation name and address, of
the packer or of a dealer obtaining them
from the packer, and
  * (_b_) a true and correct description, plainly
and conspicuously printed, of the contents
of the can including the vernacular name
and, in the case of fish, the minimum
weight in avoirdupois of the contents and,
in the case of shellfish unless it is otherwise
provided by the regulations, the minimum
weight in avoirdupois of the dry meat in
the can.
(3) Where it is established to the satisfaction
of the Governor in Council that the labelling
of the cans of fish or shellfish as prescribed
by this section hinders the sale of the same in
markets outside Canada, he may exempt such
cans of fish or shellfish as are exported to
such markets from any or all of the provisions
of this section. R.S., c. 177, s. 18.

**19.** No false or misleading mark or name
shall be placed on any can of fish or shellfish,
whether the same relates to the place where
the fish or shellfish has been caught or canned,
or to the kind of fish or shellfish, or any other
particular relating to the same. R.S., c. 177,
s. 19.

**20.** The owner or manager of every fish or
shellfish cannery shall supply the Minister
with a copy of each kind of label used in the
cannery, and every dealer obtaining canned
fish or canned shellfish direct from the packer
shall supply the Minister with a copy of each
kind of label used by him on such canned fish
or canned shellfish. R.S., c. 177, s. 20.
2 1. Any inspector may at any time stop
the canning of any particular fish or shellfish
or of any variety of fish or shellfish that he
considers unfit for human food. R.S., c. 177,
s. 21.

**22.** (1) All canned fish and shellfish shall
be sound, wholesome and fit for human food.
(2) Any unsound fish or shellfish found
otherwise, samples for inspection in accord
ance with the requirements of this Act. R.S.,
c. 177, s. 22.

**23.** (1) For the purposes of this Act the
grades of canned lobster shall be as designated
by regulation and, if the need for such is
established to the satisfaction of the Governor
in Council, canned lobster shall be classified,
inspected and labelled as provided in the
regulations.
(2) The Governor in Council may also by
regulation establish grades and other require
ments for canned fish or shellfish that may
be presented for grading. R.S., c. 177, s. 23.

**24.** For the purposes of this Act the
varieties of British Columbia salmon shall be
designated and, if the need for such is
established to the satisfaction of the Governor
in Council, graded as provided in the
regulations. R.S., c. 177, s. 24.

**25.** (1) In the event of this Act or any
regulation, or the lawful instructions of
inspecting officers, not being complied with
in any fish or shellfish cannery, the Minister
may order the fish or shellfish cannery to be
closed.
(2) Any cannery in which the sanitary
conditions are being neglected may be
immediately closed by the inspecting officer
until the defects are remedied. R.S., c. 177,
s. 25.

**26.** (1) All cans of fish or shellfish imported
into Canada shall be correctly labelled so as
to indicate in a plain and conspicuous manner
  * (_a_) the kind and quality of their contents ;
  * (_b_) the minimum weight in avoirdupois of
the contents of the cans in the case of
canned fish and of the dry meat in the can
in the case of canned shellfish ;
  * (_c_) the place of origin; and
  * (_d_) the name and address of the person,
firm or corporation by whom they are
packed or by whom they are imported.
(2) Canned fish or canned shellfish import
ed into Canada to be exported again need
only be labelled to show the country of origin.
(3) No false or misleading mark or designa
tion of the kind or variety of the contents
shall be shown on any can of fish or shellfish
imported for sale in Canada.
(4) No canned fish or shellfish shall be
admitted into Canada by any officer of the
customs unless labelled in accordance with
this section and labelled to conform to such
requirements as the Governor in Council may
by regulation prescribe. R.S., c. 177, s. 26.

**27.** Any can of fish or shellfish that bears
any false or misleading mark or is incorrectly
labelled or marked and not labelled or marked
in accordance with this Act or of the
regulations, may be seized by any inspector,
or by any customs, excise or police officer or
by any constable, and shall be confiscated to
Her Majesty by any two justices of the peace
or by any magistrate having the powers of
two justices of the peace, if it is found that
the label or marking is intended or calculated
to deceive. R.S., c. 177, s. 27.

## GENERAL

**28.** (1) All fish, fruit, or vegetables, or
products thereof, or any food or food products
that may be named by the Governor in
Council, under this Act, used in any estab
lishment where these articles are prepared for
export, shall be sound, wholesome, and fit for
food.
(2) Any such articles or products thereof
found in such establishment unsound or
unwholesome shall be confiscated and
destroyed in such manner as may be provided
by the regulations.
(3) All canned fruit or vegetables or products
thereof, or any food or food products including
canned fish and shellfish that may be named
by the Governor in Council, shall be offered
for sale only in such cans or other containers
as the Governor in Council may by regulations
prescribe, and such cans or containers must
contain the quality, quantity or weight
prescribed by the regulations. R.S., c. 177,
s. 28.

**29.** (1) An inspection and close supervision
of the sanitary conditions of all establishments
shall be maintained, and they shall be
conducted, under such conditions, sanitary
and otherwise, as may be prescribed by the
regulations.
(2) The inspector shall refuse to inspect or
mark articles in any establishment where the
sanitary conditions are not in accordance with
the regulations. R.S., c. 177, s. 29.

**30.** In the event of this Act, or any
regulations, or the lawful instruction of an
inspector, not being complied with in any
establishment, the Minister may
  * (_a_) withdraw the inspector therefrom,
(6) refuse the inspection, marking, and
certification of the articles prepared therein,
and
  * (_c_) cause the establishment to be closed.
R.S.,c. 177,s.30.
3 1. No person shall offer or expose or have
in his possession for sale any article subject
to inspection under this Act unless all the
requirements thereof respecting the article
have been complied with. R.S., c. 177, s. 31.

**32.** No person shall offer or accept for
export or import, or shall export or import,
any articles subject to inspection under this
Act, unless the requirements regarding inspec
tion and marking have been complied with in
respect to such articles. U.S., c. 177, s. 32.

**33.** Every person offering or accepting for
export or import, or exporting , or importing,
  * (_a_) any carcass, or portion or product
thereof,
  * (_b_) fruit or vegetables, or products thereof,
or
  * (_c_) food or food products named by the
Governor in Council under section 35,
furnish such proof as is required by the
as to whether the articles so
or accepted for export or import, or
exported or imported, are subject to inspection
or not. R.S., c. 177, s. 33.

**34.** (1) No carcass, or portion or product
thereof, intended for food shall be imported
into Canada unless proof satisfactory to the
Minister accompany it that the same has
passed government inspection in the country
of origin.
(2) Any such carcass, or portion or product
thereof, imported into Canada is subject to
such further inspection, and shall conform to
such requirements as the Governor in Council
may by regulation prescribe. R.S., c. 177,
s. 34.

**35.** N O fi snj f ru it O r vegetables or products
thereof, or food or food products which may
be named by the Governor in Council, shall
be imported into Canada or exported from
Canada unless they conform to such require
ments as the Governor in Council may by
regulations prescribe. R.S., c. 177, s. 35.

**36.** Any carcass, or portion or product
thereof, or fruit or vegetable or products
thereof, or food or food product, that does
not conform to the requirements of such
regulations shall, upon condemnation by any
inspector, be forfeit to Her Majesty, and may
be disposed of as the Minister may direct.
R.S., c. 177, s. 36.

**37.** (1) No article subject to inspection
under this Act shall be offered or sold for
export or import, or exported or imported,
under any name intended or calculated to
deceive as to its true nature.
(2) No package containing any article
subject to inspection under this Act shall be
marked with any label, brand or mark that
falsely represents
(6) the date when the articles or goods
contained therein were packed. R.S., c. 177,
s. 37.

**38.** Every person who, without authority,
wilfully and wrongfully
  * (_a_) uses or imitates any mark, tag, label or
certificate placed on or attached to any
article in accordance with this Act or of any
regulation ;
(6) removes, alters, effaces or obliterates, or
causes to be removed, altered, effaced or
obliterated, wholly or partially, any such
mark, tag, label or certificate ;
shall incur a penalty of one hundred dollars.
R.S.,c. 177, s. 38.

**39.** For the purposes of this Act, the
certificate of an inspector or other officer
appointed under this Act, or any mark applied
under this Act, is prima facie proof of the
matter that it purports to establish. U.S., c.
177, s. 39.

**40.** (1) Any inspector or other officer
appointed under this Act may, at any time,
for the purpose of carrying into effect any
provision of this Act,
  * (_a_) enter any place or premises, or any
steamship, vessel or boat, or any carriage,
car, truck, horse-box or other vehicle used
for the carriage of articles subject to this
Act, and
(6) require to be produced for inspection, or
for the purpose of obtaining copies thereof
or extracts therefrom, any books, shipping
bills, bills of lading or other papers.
(2) The inspector or other officer shall, if
required, state in writing the grounds for his
action in so doing. R.S., c. 177, s. 40.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**41.** (1) Every person who refuses to admit,
or who obstructs or impedes, an inspector or
other officer acting in execution of this Act,
or of any order or regulation made by the
Governor in Council or the Minister hereun-
der, and every person who aids and assists
him therein, shall, for every such offence,
incur a penalty not exceeding five hundred
dollars.
(2) The inspector or other officer may
apprehend the offender and take him forth
with before a justice of the peace to be dealt
with according to law.
(3) No person so apprehended shall be
detained in custody, without the order of the
justice, longer than twenty-four hours. R.S.,
c. 177,s.41.

**42.** Every person who moves, or causes or
allows to be moved, any animal, or any article
in violation of this Act, shall, for every such
offence, incur a penalty not exceeding five
hundred dollars. R.S., c. 177, s. 42.

**43.** The provisions of the Criminal Code
respecting the bribery and corruption of
officials or employees of the Government
extend to all inspectors and other persons
appointed to carry out this Act. U.S., c. 177,
s. 43.

**44.** Every person who violates any provi
sion of this Act, or of any regulation made
by the Governor in Council or by the Minister
under the authority of this Act, in respect to
which no penalty is hereinbefore provided,
shall for every such offence, incur a penalty
not exceeding five hundred dollars. R.S., c.
177, s. 44.

**45.** (1) Any inspector or constable may,
without warrant, apprehend any person found
committing an offence against this Act, and
shall take any person so apprehended forth
with before a justice of the peace to be
examined and dealt with according to law.
(2) A person so apprehended shall not be
detained in custody, without the order of a
justice, longer than twenty-four hours. R.S.,
c. 177, s. 45.

**46.** Any inspector or constable may require
that any animal or any article moved in
violation of this Act be forthwith taken back
within the limits of the place whence it was
moved, and may enforce and execute such

**47.** Every offence against this Act, or
against any order or regulation of the
Governor in Council or of the Minister, shall
for the purposes of proceedings under this
Act, or of any such order or regulation, be
deemed to have been committed, and every
cause of complaint under this Act, or any
such order or regulation, shall be deemed to
have arisen, either in the place in which it
actually was committed or arose, or in any
place in which the person charged or com
plained against happens to be. R.S., c. 177, s.

**47.**

**48.** Every penalty imposed by this Act is
recoverable, with costs, before any two justices
of the peace, or any magistrate having the
powers of two justices of the peace, under the
provisions of the Criminal Code relating to
summary convictions. R.S., c. 177, s. 48.
