
# CHAPTER M-7
Act respecting the inspection of meat and
meat products entering into international
and interprovincial trade

## SHORT TITLE
j. T n j s  \ ct mav be cited as the Meat
Inspection Act. 1955, c. 36, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"animal" includes bird;
"inspector" means a person appointed or
designated as an inspector pursuant to
section 6 ;
"meat product" means
  * (_a_) an animal carcass,
(6) the product or by-product of an animal
carcass, and
  * (_c_) a food product containing any product
or by-product mentioned in paragraph (6)
prescribed as a meat product for the
purposes of this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"place" includes any vehicle, vessel, railway
car, or aircraft ;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation
of the Governor in Council. 1955, c. 36, s. 2.

## EXPORT AND INTERPROVINCIAL MOVEMENT
any meat product unless
  * (_a_) the meat product was prepared in an
establishment that
  * (_i_) complied with prescribed conditions,
and
  * (_ii_) was registered and operated in pre
scribed manner ;
  * (_b_) the animal from which the product was
derived
  * (_i_) was slaughtered in prescribed manner,
and
  * (_ii_) was inspected as prescribed before
and after slaughter ;
  * (_c_) the meat product is packaged and
marked as prescribed ; and
  * (_d_) the meat product conforms to prescribed
standards.
(2) No person shall import into Canada
any meat product unless
  * (_a_) the meat product is packaged and
marked as prescribed,
  * (_b_) the importer has obtained and produces
prescribed evidence that the meat product
conforms to prescribed standards, and
  * (_c_) meat products of the class or kind
imported are, under the laws of the country
of origin, subject to inspection in prescribed
manner. 1955, c. 36, s. 3.

## REGULATIONS

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
regulations for prohibiting the carriage to a
destination outside the province in which it
was received of a meat product unless
  * (_a_) prescribed evidence that the product
meets the requirements of this Act and the
regulations has been obtained and produced
as prescribed, and
  * (_b_) the meat product is identified in
prescribed manner as a meat product that
meets the requirements of this Act and the
regulations.
(2) No person shall carry or receive for
carriage a meat product contrary to a
regulation made under this section. 1955, c.
s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may make
for carrying out the purposes and
of this Act, and without limiting
generality of the foregoing, ma}- make
  * (_a_) providing for the registration of estab
lishments and prescribing fees for registra
tion;
  * (_b_) respecting the operation of establish
ments ;
  * (_c_) providing for the inspection of estab
lishments, animals and meat products and
prescribing fees therefor ;
  * (_cf_) prescribing standards for any class of
meat products;
  * (_e_) respecting the packaging and marking
of meat products and containers thereof;
(/) for the inspection of meat products
during the course of preparation ;
  * (_g_) for exempting any person or meat
product from the operation of all or any of
the provisions of this Act ; and
  * (_h_) for prescribing anything that by this
Act is required to be prescribed. 1955, c. 36,
s. 5.

## ADMINISTRATION

**6.** (1) Inspectors and other persons neces
sary for the administration and enforcement
of this Act shall be appointed or employed
under the Public Service Employment Act.
(2) The Minister may designate any person
as an inspector for the purposes of this Act.
1955, c. 36, s. 6.

**7.** (1) An inspector may at any time
  * (_a_) enter any place in which he reasonably
believes there are meat products or other
things to which this Act applies and may
open any package found therein that he
has reason to believe contains any meat
product, and may examine any meat
product or other thing found in such place
and take samples thereof, and
(6) require any person to produce for
inspection or for the purpose of obtaining
copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any
books, shipping bills, bills of lading or other
documents or papers, with respect to the
administration of this Act or the regulations.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
certificate of his appointment or
and on entering any place under
(1) shall, if so required, produce
the certificate to the person in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of any
place described in subsection (1) and every
person found therein shall give an inspector
all reasonable assistance in his power to
enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and shall furnish
him with such information with respect to the
administration of this Act or the regulations
as he may reasonably require. 1955, c. 36, s. 7.

**8.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that this Act has been
violated he may seize the meat products and
other things by means of or in relation to
which he reasonably believes the violation
was committed.
(2) Meat products and other things seized
pursuant to subsection (1) shall not be detained
after
  * (_a_) the provisions of this Act and the
regulations have, in the opinion of the
inspector, been complied with, or
(6) the expiration of ninety days from the
day of seizure, or such longer period as may
be prescribed with respect to any meat
product or other thing,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation, in which
event the meat products and other things
may be detained until the proceedings are
finally concluded.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of a
violation of this Act, every meat product or
other thing by means of or in relation to
which the offence was committed is, upon the
conviction, in addition to any penalty
imposed, forfeited to Her Majesty, if such
forfeiture is directed by the court.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the detention of articles
and
(6) respecting the disposition of articles
forfeited under this section. 1955, c. 36, s. 8.

**9.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector or other officer in the carrying
out of his duties or functions under this Act.
(2) Xo person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector or other officer engaged
in carrying out his duties or functions under
this Act. 1955, c. 36, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Every person who, or whose
employee or agent has violated any provision
of this Act or any regulation made under
subsection 8(4) is guilty of an offence and is
liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both, or
  * (_b_) upon conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year, or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence to
establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence. 1955, c. 36,
s. 10.

**11.** Proof that a meat product or a package
containing a meat product bore
  * (_a_) a name and address purporting to be
the name and address of the person by
whom it was packaged or prepared, or
  * (_b_) a registered number or brand mark
purporting to be the registered number or
brand mark of the establishment where it
was packaged or prepared
is prima facie proof in a prosecution for a
violation of this Act that the meat product
was packaged or prepared and that the meat
product or package was marked by the person
whose name or address appeared on the meat
product or package, or by the person operating
brand mark appeared on the package, as the
case may be. 1955, c. 36, s. 11.

**12.** A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a police or stipendiary
magistrate or a justice or justices of the peace
if the accused is resident or carrying on
business within his or their territorial juris
diction although the matter of the complaint
or information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1955, c. 36, s. 12.
