Research Council Act.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Council" means the Medical Research Coun
cil established by section 3 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of National
Health and Welfare. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 54.

## COUNCIL ESTABLISHED

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
be called the Medical Research Council
consisting of a president and not more than
twenty-one other members to be appointed
by the Governor in Council as provided in
section 5. 1968-39, c. 28, s. 55.

## FUNCTIONS

**4.** (1) It is the function of the Council to
  * (_a_) promote, assist and undertake basic,
applied and clinical research in Canada in
the health sciences, other than public health
research; and
(6) advise the Minister in respect of such
matters relating to such research as the
Minister may refer to the Council for its
consideration.
(2) The Council, in carrying out its func
  * (_a_) expend, for the purposes of this Act,
any money appropriated by Parliament for
the work of the Council or received by the
Council through the conduct of its opera
tions;
(6) acquire any money, securities or other
property by gift, bequest or otherwise, and
expend, administer or dispose of any such
money, securities or other property, subject
to the terms, if any, upon which such
money, securities or other property is given,
bequeathed or otherwise made available to
the Council ; and
  * (_c_) subject to the approval of the Minister,
publish and sell or otherwise distribute such
scientific and technical information as the
Council deems necessary. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**56.**

## ORGANIZATION

**5.** (1) The President of the Council shall
be appointed to hold office during pleasure.
(2) Each of the other members of the
Council shall be appointed to hold office
during pleasure for such term, not exceeding
three years, as will ensure as far as possible
the expiration in any one year of the terms
of appointment of fewer than half of the
members so appointed.
(3) A retiring member of the Council is
eligible for re-appointment to the Council.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 57.

**6.** (1) The Council may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, elect one of its
members to be Vice-President of the Council.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the President of the Council, or if the
office of President is vacant, the Vice-
President has and may exercise and perform
all the duties and functions of President.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 58.

**7.** (1) The President of the Council shall
be paid such salary and expenses as are fixed
by the Governor in Council.
(2) The members of the Council, other than
the President, shall serve without remunera
tion but each such member is entitled to be
reasonable travelling and other expenses
by him while absent from his
place of residence in the course of
his duties under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a mem
ber of the Council other than the President
may, for any period during which he performs
with the approval of the Council arty duties
on behalf of the Council in addition to his
ordinary duties as a member thereof, be paid
such remuneration therefor as may be author
ized by the Governor in Council. 1968-69, c.
28, s. 59.

**8.** (1) The head office of the Council shall
be in the National Capital Region described
in the schedule to the National Capital Act.
(2) The Council shall meet at least twice a
year and may meet at such other times as it
deems necessary. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 60.

**9.** The President is the chief executive
officer of the Council and has supervision
over and direction of the work and staff of
the Council. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 61.

**10.** (1) There shall be an executive com
mittee of the Council consisting of the
President, the Vice- President and at least six
other members selected by the Council.
(2) The executive committee of the Council
may exercise and perform such of the powers
and functions of the Council as the Council
may by by-law assign to it and shall submit
at each meeting of the Council minutes of its
proceedings since the last preceding meeting
of the Council. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 62.

**11.** (1) The Council may make by-laws for
the regulation of its proceedings and generally
for the conduct of its activities including the
establishment of ad hoc, standing and other
committees of the Council.
(2) Any by-law made pursuant to subsection
(1) establishing an advisory committee of the
Council may provide for the membership
thereon of persons other than members of the
Council, in addition to members of the
Council. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 63.
J2. (1) The Council may, with the approval
of the Minister,
  * (_a_) appoint such officers and employees as
are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Council ; and
  * (_b_) prescribe the duties of such officers and
employees and the conditions of their
employment.
(2) The officers and employees of the
Council appointed as provided in subsection
(1) shall be paid such salaries and expenses as
are fixed by the Council with the approval of
the Governor in Council. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 64.

**13.** (1) The Council is for all purposes an
agent of Her Majesty and its powers may be
exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Council may on behalf of Her
Majesty enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in its own name.
(3) Any property acquired by the Council
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Council.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Council on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Council in the name of the
Council in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the Council were not an agent
of Her Majesty. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 65.

**14.** The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not apply to members of the Council,
other than the President, unless in the case of
any such member the Governor in Council
otherwise directs. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 66.
FINANCIAL

**15.** All amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses under this Act
including expenses of administration shall be
paid out of moneys appropriated by Parlia
ment for the purpose. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 67.

## AUDIT

**16.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Council shall be audited annually by
the Auditor General of Canada, and a report
of the audit shall be made to the Council and
to the Minister. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 68.

## REPORT
17, The President of the Council shall,
within four months after the termination of
each fiscal year, transmit to the Minister a
report relating to the activities of the Council
for that fiscal year, including the financial
statements of the Council and the Auditor
General s report thereon, and the Minister
shall cause such statement to be laid before
Parliament within fifteen days after the
receipt thereof or, if Parliament is not then
sitting, on any of the first fifteen days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 69.
