Library Act. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
Board" means the National Library Advisory
Board established pursuant to section 9 ;
book" means library matter of every kind,
nature and description and includes any
document, paper, record, tape or other thing
published by a publisher, on or in which
information is written, recorded, stored or
reproduced ;
Library" means the National Library ;
Minister" means the Secretary of State of
Canada ;
published in Canada" means released in
Canada for public distribution or sale,
otherwise than by Her Majesty in right of
a province or by a municipality. 1968-69, c.
47, s. 2.

**3.** (1) The National Library established
under section 3 of the National Library Act,
chapter 330 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
1952, is hereby continued.
(2) Every book placed in the care and
custody of the National Librarian or delivered
to or otherwise acquired by the National
part of the Library. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 3.

## ADMINISTRATION OF LIBRARY

**4.** The Minister shall preside over and has
the supervision of the management and
direction of the Library. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer to be called the National
Librarian.
(2) The National Librarian has the rank
and status of a deputy head of a department
and, subject to section 4, has the management
and direction of the Library.
(3) The National Librarian holds office
during pleasure and shall be paid such salary
as is fixed by the Governor in Council. 1968-
69, c. 47, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer to be called the Associate
National Librarian.
(2) The Associate National Librarian shall
assist the National Librarian in the perform
ance of his duties under this Act and shall act
as National Librarian in the event of the
absence or incapacity of the National Librari
an or if the office of National Librarian is
vacant.
(3) The Associate National Librarian holds
office during pleasure and shall be paid such
salary as is fixed by the Governor in Council.
1968-69, c. 47, s. 6.

## POWERS AND DUTIES OF NATIONAL LIBRARIAN

**7.** (1) Subject to the direction of the
Minister, the National Librarian shall gener
ally manage and direct the Library in such a
manner that the facilities of the Library may
be made available to the Government and
people of Canada to the greatest extent
consistent with the sound administration of
the Library, and to that end may
  * (_a_) undertake the collection, by purchase or
otherwise, of books for the Library ;
(6) compile and maintain a national union
catalogue in which the contents of the
principal library collections throughout
Canada may be listed ;
  * (_c_) compile and publish a national bibliog
raphy in which books produced in Canada,
written or prepared by Canadians or of
special interest or significance to Canada
may be noted and described ;
  * (_d_) lend, sell or otherwise dispose of books
forming part of the Library ; and
  * (_e_) enter into book exchange agreements
with libraries and other institutions in or
outside Canada.
(2) Subject to the direction of the Governor
in Council, the National Librarian may
coordinate the library sen-ices of departments,
branches and agencies of the Government of
Canada including
  * (_a_) the acquisition and cataloguing of
books;
(6) the supply of professional advice, super
vision and personnel ; and
  * (_c_) the provision of modern information
storage and retrieval services including
photocopying and microfilming services,
electronic and other automated data pro
cessing services and facsimile or other
communication of information services.
1968-69, c. 47, s. 7.

**8.** The National Librarian may, on terms
and conditions approved by the Minister,
enter into agreements with libraries and
library and educational associations and
institutions in and outside Canada in respect
of library services, including library services
referred to in subsection 7(2). 1968-69, c. 47, s.

**8.**

## NATIONAL LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD

**9.** (1) The Governor in Council may estab
lish a Board, to be known as the National
Library Advisory- Board, to advise and assist
the National Librarian in the organization
and development of the Library and to advise
and assist in the development of the relations
of the Library with other libraries and library
and educational associations and institutions.
(2) The membership of the Board shall
of
  * (_a_) the National Librarian ;
(6) the Parliamentary Librarian, the
Dominion Archivist and the Librarian of
the National Science Library of the National
Research Council of Canada, who shall be
members ex officio ;
  * (_c_) two other persons, one each representing
and nominated by the Canada Council and
the Association of Universities and Colleges
of Canada ; and
  * (_d_) nine other persons, at least four of
whom shall be professional librarians and
each of whom shall be appointed by the
Governor in Council to hold office for a
term of not more than four years.
(3) The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, elect one of its
members to be Chairman of the Board.
(4) A person appointed pursuant to para
graph (2)(cO who has served as a member of
the Board for two consecutive terms is not,
during the twelve months following the
completion of his second term, eligible for re-
appointment.
(5) Each member of the Board who is not
an employee of Her Majesty, an agent of Her
Majesty or the Canada Council shall be paid,
for each day he attends any meeting of the
Board or any committee of the Board, such
remuneration therefor as may be approved by
the Governor in Council.
(6) Each member of the Board is entitled
to be paid reasonable travelling and living
expenses while absent from his ordinary place
of residence in connection with the work of
the Board.
(7) The Board may, with the approval of
the Minister, make rules governing its proce
dure and the conduct of the work of the
Board, including the establishment of com
mittees of the Board. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 9.

## TRANSFER OF BOOKS

**10.** (1) The Governor in Council may
direct that the books in the care or custody of
department, branch or agency of the
of Canada be transferred from
department, branch or agency and placed
in the care and custody of the National
Librarian.
(2) Notwithstanding the Surplus Crown
Assets Ad, all books that have become surplus
to the requirements of any department, branch
or agency of the Government of Canada shall
be placed in the care and custody of the
National Librarian.
(3) The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
apply to any books placed in the care and
custody of, delivered to or otherwise acquired
by the National Librarian pursuant to this
Act. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 10.

## NEW PUBLICATIONS

**11.** (1) Subject to this section and the
regulations, the publisher of a book published
in Canada shall, at his own expense and
within one week from the date of publication,
send two copies of the book to the National
Librarian, who shall give to the publisher a
written receipt for the book.
(2) Where the retail value of a book
published in Canada exceeds fifty dollars, the
publisher of the book is deemed to have
complied with the requirements of this section
if, at his own expense and within one week
from the date of publication, he sends to the
National Librarian one copy of the book,
equal in quality to the best quality produced.
(3) The Minister may make regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the quality of the copies
required to be sent to the National Librarian
of any book the copies of which are not of
uniform quality ;
(5) prescribing the classes or kinds of books
in respect of which only one copy is required
to be sent to the National Librarian ; and
  * (_c_) prescribing the classes or kinds of books
in respect of which no copies are required
to be sent to the National Librarian unless
specifically requested by him.
(4) Every publisher of a book published in
Canada who contravenes or fails to comply
with any provision of this section or the
regulations is guilty of an offence and is
liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars. 1968-
69, c. 47, s. 11.
FINANCIAL

**12.** (1) There shall be credited to the
special account in the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, called the National Library Purchase
Account, all amounts appropriated by Parlia
ment in any fiscal year for the purpose of
acquiring books for the Library.
(2) Any amounts required for the purpose
of acquiring books for the Library, including
any costs in connection with such acquisitions,
may be paid out of amounts credited to the
National Library Purchase Account.
(3) There shall be credited to the special
account in the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
called the National Library Special Operating
Account, all amounts received for the purpose
of the Library by way of donation, bequest or
otherwise.
(4) Subject to subsection (2), all amounts
required for the purposes of this Act may be
paid out of the National Library Special
Operating Account or out of any moneys
appropriated by Parliament therefor. 1968-69,
c. 47, s. 12.

**13.** The National Librarian shall within
three months after the end of each fiscal year
submit to the Minister a report, in the form
required by the Minister, of all proceedings
under this Act for the fiscal year, and the
Minister shall lay the report before Parliament
within fifteen days after the receipt thereof
or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any
of the first fifteen days next thereafter that
Parliament is sitting. 1968-69, c. 47, s. 13.
