
## CHAPTER N- 12
An Act to establish the National Museums of
Canada

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the National
Museums Act. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Board of Trustees of the
Corporation ;
"Corporation" means the National Museums
of Canada established by section 3 ;
"Minister" means the Secretary of State of
Canada ;
"museum" means a museum described in
section 6 or established pursuant to that
section. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 2.

## NATIONAL MUSEUMS OF CANADA

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
be known as the National Museums of
Canada, consisting of a Board of Trustees
composed of a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman,
the persons from time to time holding office
as
  * (_a_) the Director of the Canada Council,
and
(6) the President of the National Research
Council of Canada,
and ten other members, to be appointed as
provided in section 4. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman
of the Board shall be appointed by the
Governor in Council for such terms, not
five years each, as are fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) Each of the members of the Board,
other than the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman
and those holding the offices described in
paragraphs 3(a) and (6), shall be appointed
by the Governor in Council for terms not
exceeding four years, except that of those
members first appointed three shall be
appointed for a term of two years, three shall
be appointed for a term of three years and
four shall be appointed for a term of four
years.
(3) A person who has served two consecutive
terms as the Chairman of the Board or as the
Vice-Chairman of the Board or as a member
of the Board appointed under subsection (2)
is not, during the twelve months following
the completion of his second term, eligible to
be re-appointed to the Board in the capacity
in which he so served.
(4) A vacancy in the membership of the
Board does not impair the right of the
remaining members to act. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 4.

## PURPOSES AND POWERS

**5.** (1) The purposes of the Corporation are
to demonstrate the products of nature and
the works of man, with special but not
exclusive reference to Canada, so as to
promote interest therein throughout Canada
and to disseminate knowledge thereof.
(2) In furtherance of its purposes the
Corporation may
  * (_a_) collect, classify, preserve and display
objects relevant to its purposes ;
(6) undertake or sponsor research relevant
to its purposes ;
  * (_c_) arrange for and sponsor travelling
exhibitions of materials in, or related to, its
collections ;
  * (_d_) arrange for the acquisition or publica
tion and the sale to the public of books,
pamphlets, replicas and other materials
related to its purposes ;
  * (_e_) undertake or sponsor programs for the
training of persons in the professions and
skills involved in the operation of museums ;
(/) establish adequate liaison with other
museums and universities with a view to
securing maximum collaboration of all
activities in this field and, for such purposes,
establish a committee or committees pur
suant to section 13 ;
  * (_gf_) arrange for or provide professional and
technical services to other organizations
whose purposes are similar to any of those
of the Corporation, on such terms and
conditions as may be approved by the
Minister ; and
  * (_h_) generally, do and authorize such things
as are incidental or conducive to the
attainment of the purposes of the Corpora
tion and the exercise of its powers. 1967-68,
c. 21, s. 5.

## ORGANIZATION

**6.** The Corporation shall comprise
  * (_a_) a museum of fine arts, to be known as
the National Gallery of Canada ;
  * (_b_) a museum of human history ;
  * (_c_) a museum of natural history ;
  * (_d_) a museum of science and technology ;
and
  * (_e_) such other museums as may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, be
established by the Board. 1967-68, c. 21, s.

**6.**

**7.** (1) There shall be a director for each
museum appointed by the Governor in
Council on the recommendation of the Board
to hold office during pleasure.
(2) The director of each museum shall be
paid by the Corporation such salary as is
fixed by the Governor in Council on the
recommendation of the Board.
(3) Subject to the by-laws of the Corpora
tion, a director of a museum has, on behalf of
the Board, the direction of the activities of
the museum for which he is appointed director.
1967-68, c. 21, s. 7.

**8.** (1) There shall be a Secretary-General
of the Corporation appointed by the Governor
in Council to hold office during pleasure who
shall be paid by the Corporation such salary
as is fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) Subject to the by-laws of the Corpora
tion, the Secretary-General has, on behalf of
that are not by this Act or the by-laws
reserved to the Board, a committee
of the Board or a director of a museum. 1967-
c. 21, s. 8.

**9.** If a director of a museum or the
Secretary-General is unable to perform the
duties of his office or the office is vacant, the
Board may authorize an officer of the
Corporation to act as director of the museum
or as Secretary -General, as the case may be.
1967-68, c. 21,s.9.

## FINANCIAL

**10.** (1) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the National Museums
Purchase Account to which shall be credited
  * (_a_) all moneys appropriated by Parliament
for the purchase by the Corporation of
objects for the collections of the Corpora
tion,
(6) all moneys received by the Corporation
from the sale of objects forming part of the
collections of the Corporation, other than
objects acquired by gift, bequest or other
wise, and
  * (_c_) an amount representing interest on the
balance from time to time to the credit of
the Account, at such rates and calculated
in such manner as the Governor in Council
prescribes,
and to which shall be charged such amounts
as are authorized by the Board to be expended
for the purchase of objects for the collections
of the Corporation, including any costs in
connection therewith.
(2) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the National Museums Trust
Account to which shall be credited
  * (_a_) all moneys received by the Corporation
by gift, bequest or otherwise,
(6) all moneys received by the Corporation
as interest on any securities or as rent on
any property acquired by the Corporation
by gift, bequest or otherwise,
  * (_c_) all moneys received by the Corporation
from the sale of any real or personal
property acquired by the Corporation by
gift, bequest or otherwise, and
  * (_d_) an amount representing interest on the
the Account, at such rates and calculated
in such manner as the Governor in Council
prescribes,
and to which shall be charged such amounts
as are authorized by the Board to be expended
for the purpose for which such moneys or
property were given, bequeathed or otherwise
made available to the Corporation.
(3) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the National Museums Special
Account to which shall be credited
  * (_a_) all moneys appropriated by Parliament
for the Corporation for the acquisition or
publication and the sale to the public of
books, pamphlets, replicas and other materi
als related to its purposes, and
(6) all moneys received by the Corporation
from the sale to the public of materials
described in paragraph (a),
and to which shall be charged such amounts
as are authorized by the Board to be expended
for the acquisition or publication of materials
described in paragraph (a).
(4) ]$ o amO unt shall be paid out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund and charged to
any account established pursuant to this
section that exceeds the amount of the balance
then standing to the credit of that account.
1967-68, c. 21, s. 10.

**11.** All expenditures for salaries, travelling
expenses and other expenses of administration
shall be paid out of moneys appropriated by
Parliament for the purpose. 1967-68, c. 21, s.

**11.**

**12.** Each member of the Board, other than
a member who is in receipt of a salary fixed
by the Governor in Council or the Treasury
Board, shall be paid by the Corporation, for
each day he attends any meeting of the Board
or of any committee of the Board, such
remuneration as is fixed by by-law of the
Board, and each member of the Board or of
a consultative committee of the Board is
BY-LAWS

**13.** T ne Board, with the approval of the
may make by-laws
  * (_a_) for the regulation of its proceedings,
including the establishment of special and
standing committees of the Board, the
delegation to such committees of any of its
duties and the fixing of quorums for
meetings of the Board or of such commit
tees;
  * (_b_) for the establishment of consultative
committees consisting of members of the
Board or persons other than members or
both;
  * (_c_) prescribing the duties of, and delegating
any of its duties to, the director of each
museum and the Secretary-General ;
  * (_d_) fixing the remuneration and travelling
and living expenses to be paid pursuant to
section 12 ; and
  * (_e_) generally, for the conduct and manage
ment of its activities. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 13.

## GENERAL

**14.** The Head Office of the Corporation
shall be at the city of Ottawa. 1967-68, c. 21,
s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Corporation is, for all purposes
of this Act, an agent of Her Majesty and its
powers under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Corporation may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(3) Property acquired by the Corporation
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Corporation.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Corporation
not an agent of Her Majesty. 1967-68, c.
s. 15.

**16.** The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not apply to a member of the Board who
is not in receipt of a salary fixed by the
Governor in Council or the Treasury Board
unless the Governor in Council otherwise
directs. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 16.

**17.** The Corporation may acquire by gift,
bequest or otherwise any real or personal
property and may, notwithstanding anything
in this Act, hold, administer, expend or
dispose of any such property, subject to the
terms, if any, upon which it is given,
bequeathed or otherwise made available to
the Corporation. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 17.

**18.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Board
may sell, exchange, give away or otherwise
dispose of any object in the collections of the
Corporation if, in the opinion of the director
of the museum responsible for the object, it is
not fit to be retained in the collections of the
Corporation or the disposal of the object
would further the purposes of the Corporation.
(2) The Board shall not dispose of any
object in the collections of the Corporation
contrary to the terms on which the object was
given, bequeathed or otherwise made available
to the Corporation. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 18.

**19.** The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
apply to the Corporation or to the property
of the Corporation. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 19.

**20.** The Corporation shall be deemed to
be a charitable organization in Canada
  * (_a_) as described in paragraph 69(1)(/) of the
Income Tax Act, for the purposes of that
Act ; and
  * (_b_) as described in subparagraph 7(l)(d)(i)
of the Estate Tax Act, for the purposes of
that Act. 1967-68, c. 21,s. 20.
2 1. The accounts and financial transactions
of the Corporation shall be audited annually
by the Auditor General of Canada and a
report of the audit shall be made to the
Chairman of the Board. 1967-68, c. 21, s. 21.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**22.** The Chairman of the Board shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, submit to the Minister a
report of all proceedings under this Act for
that fiscal year, including the financial
statement of the Corporation, and the Auditor
General s report thereon, and the Minister
shall cause such report to be laid before
Parliament within fifteen days after the
receipt thereof, or, if Parliament is not then
sitting, on any of the first fifteen days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting. 1967-68,
c. 21,s.22.
