
## CHAPTER N- 15
An Act respecting the Department of National
Revenue

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of National Revenue Act. R.S., c. 75, s. 1.

**2.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of National Revenue over which the Minister
of National Revenue appointed by commis
sion under the Great Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
direction of the Department and holds office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 75, s. 2.

**3.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint two officers to be designated respec
tively as the Deputy Minister of National
Revenue for Taxation and the Deputy
Minister of National Revenue for Customs
and Excise.
(2) The Deputy Minister of National Reve
nue for Taxation is the lawful deputy of the
Minister, exercising power and authority as if
he were deputy minister of a separate
department of government charged with the
control, regulation, management and super
vision of internal taxes including income
taxes and succession duties.
(3) The Deputy Minister of National Reve
nue for Customs and Excise is the lawful
deputy of the Minister, exercising power and
authority as if he were deputy minister of a
department of government charged
with the control, regulation, management and
of duties of customs and excise
including taxes imposed by the Excise Tax
Act.
Employment of (4) The Minister may, subject to the Public
temporary or
acting officers Service Employment Act, from time to time
authorize the employment of such temporary
or acting officers of National Revenue as are
required to carry on the work of the
Department. R.S., c. 75, s. 3.
Duties of 4. (1) The duties, powers and functions of
Minister
the Minister extend and apply to the subjects
and services enumerated in the schedule, over
which the Minister has the control, regulation,
management and supervision, subject always
to the provisions of the Acts relating to the
said subjects and matters connected therewith.
Powers may be (2) The Governor in Council may at any
assigned to any
other Minister time assign any of the duties and powers
hereby vested in the Minister to the head of
any other department, and from the time
appointed for that purpose by order in council
such duties and powers shall be vested in the
head of such other department. R.S., c. 75, s.

**4.**
Annual report 5. The Minister shall each year make a
report to the Governor General of the
transactions and affairs of the Department
during the preceding year, and this report
shall be laid before Parliament within fifteen
days after its next meeting. R.S., c. 75, s. 5.

## SCHEDULE

**1.** The control and management of the collection of the
duties of customs and of matters incident thereto.

**2.** The collection of all duties of excise.

**3.** The collection of stamp duties and the preparation and
issue of stamps and stamped paper, except postage stamps, and
the Excise Tax Act, except as therein otherwise provided.

**4.** Internal taxes, unless otherwise provided, including income
taxes.

**5.** Such other duties as may be assigned to the Minister by
the Governor in Council. R.S., c. 75, Sch.
