
## CHAPTER N- 19
Act respecting the protection of navigable
waters

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Navigable
Waters Protection Act. R.S., c. 193, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport;
"navigable water" includes a canal and any
other body of water created or altered as a
result of the construction of any work. 1968-
69, c. 15, s. 1.

## PARTI
Interpretation

**3.** l n this Part
"lawful work" means any work not contrary
to the law in force at the place of the
construction thereof at the time of such
construction;
"owner" includes a person authorizing or
otherwise responsible for the erection or
maintenance of any work and an actual or
reputed owner or person in possession or
claiming ownership thereof for the time
being ;
"work" includes
  * (_a_) any bridge, boom, dam, wharf, dock,
pier, tunnel or pipe and the approaches or
other works necessary or appurtenant there
to,
(6) any dumping of fill or excavation of
materials from the bed of a navigable water,
  * (_c_) any telegraph or power cable or wire, or
  * (_d_) any structure, device or thing, whether
similar in character to those referred to in
this paragraph or not, that may interfere
with navigation. R.S., c. 193, s. 2; 1956, c.
41,s. 1; 1968-69, c. 15, s. 2.
Application

**4.** Except so much of this Part as relates to
rebuilding, repairing or altering any lawful
work, nothing in this Part applies to any work
constructed under the authority of an Act of
the Parliament of Canada or of the legislature
of the former Province of Canada, or of the
legislature of any province now forming part
of Canada, passed before such province
became a part thereof. 1956, c. 41, s. 2.
General

**5.** (i) N O wor k shall be built or placed in,
upon, over, under, through or across any
navigable water unless
  * (_a_) the work and the site and plans thereof
have been approved by the Minister upon
such terms and conditions as he deems fit
prior to commencement of construction ;
(6) the construction of the work is com
menced within six months and completed
within three years of the approval referred
to in paragraph (a) or within such further
period as the Minister may fix ; and
  * (_c_) the work is built, placed and maintained
in accordance with the plans, the regulations
and the terms and conditions set out in the
approval referred to in paragraph (a).
(2) Except in the case of a bridge, boom,
dam or causeway, this section does not apply
to any work that, in the opinion of the
Minister, does not interfere substantially with
navigation. 1956, c. 41, s. 3; 1968-69, c. 15,
s. 3.

**6.** (1) Where any work to which this Part
so approved, or having been so built or placed,
is not maintained in accordance with such
plans and the regulations, the Minister may
  * (_a_) order the owner of the work to remove
or alter the work ;
(6) where the owner of the work fails
forthwith to comply with an order made
pursuant to paragraph (a), remove and
destroy the work and sell, give away or
otherwise dispose of the materials contained
in the work ; and
  * (_c_) order any person to refrain from pro
ceeding with the construction of the work
where, in the opinion of the Minister, the
work interferes or would interfere with
navigation or is being constructed contrary
to this Act.
(2) Where an owner or person fails to
comply with an order given to him pursuant
to paragraph (l)(a) or (c), he is liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
five thousand dollars.
(3) Where the Minister removes, destroys or
disposes of a work pursuant to paragraph
(1)(6), the costs of and incidental to such
operation, after deducting therefrom any sum
that may be realized by sale or otherwise, are
recoverable with costs in the name of Her
Majesty from the owner.
(4) The Minister may, subject to deposit
and advertisement as in the case of a proposed
work, approve a work and the plans and site
thereof after construction has commenced and
the approval has the same effect as if given
prior to commencement of the construction of
the work.
(5) Where a person applies for an approval
referred to in paragraph 5(l)(a) or in subsection
(4) of this section he shall pay a fee therefor
prescribed by the regulations.
(6) Where the Minister has approved a
the approval is valid for a period of
4; 1968-69, c. 15, s. 4.

**7.** The provisions of sections 5 and 6 do
not affect any bridge constructed before the
17th day of May 1882, that after that day
requires to be rebuilt or repaired, if such
bridge, when so rebuilt or repaired, does not
interfere to a greater extent with navigation
than on the said day or theretofore. R.S., c.
193, s. 6.
g. (1) The local authority, company or
person proposing to construct any work in
navigable waters, for which no sufficient
sanction otherwise exists, may deposit the
plans thereof and a description of the proposed
site with the Minister, and a duplicate of each
in the office of the registrar of deeds for the
district, county or province in which such
work is proposed to be constructed, and may
apply to the Minister for approval thereof.
(2) Where there is no registrar of deeds for
the area in which the work is proposed to be
constructed, the duplicate of the plan thereof
and the description of the proposed site shall
be deposited in the nearest land titles office
established under the Land Titles Act.
(3) The local authority, company or person
shall give one month s notice of the deposit
of plans and application by advertisement in
the Canada Gazette, and in two newspapers
published in or near the locality where such
work is to be constructed. 1956, c. 41, s. 5.

**9.** (1) Any lawful work may be rebuilt or
repaired if, in the opinion of the Minister,
the interference with navigation is not
increased by the rebuilding or repairing.
(2) Any lawful work may be altered, if
  * (_a_) plans of the proposed alteration are
deposited with and approved by the
Minister, and
(6) in the opinion of the Minister, the
interference with navigation is not increased
by the alteration ;
and for the purposes of sections 5, 6 and 10, a
reference to the plans of the work shall be
construed as including the plans of the
alteration.
passage of time and changing conditions
in navigation of the navigable waters con
cerned, any rebuilding, repair or alteration of
the work shall be treated in the same manner
as a new work.
(4) Where an approval of a work granted
pursuant to paragraph 5(l)(a) or subsection
6(4) lapses, the Minister may grant a new
approval of that work for such period of time
as he deems fit having regard to changing
conditions in navigation and the condition of
the work.
(5) Where an application is made for a new
approval of a work pursuant to subsection (4),
the work remains a lawful work pending the
decision of the Minister in respect of the
application. 1956, c. 41, s. 5; 1968-69, c. 15,
s. 5.
Regulations

**10.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
such orders or regulations as he deems
expedient for navigation purposes respecting
any work to which this Part applies or that is
approved or the plans and site of which are
approved under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada, and without restricting the generality
of the foregoing may make regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the fees payable to the
Minister upon an application for an
approval ; and
(6) prescribing, for the purpose of subsection
6(6), the period of time for which an
approval of a work is valid.
(2) Any order or regulation made under
this section may prescribe therein the punish
ment to be imposed on summary conviction
for any violations thereof, but such punish
ment shall not exceed a fine of five hundred
dollars or imprisonment for a term of six
months, or both.
(3) The local authority, company or person
constructing, owning or in possession of any
such work is subject to such orders or
regulations. R.S., c. 193, s. 10; 1968-69, c. 15,

**7.**

**11.** No approval shall be given under this
of the site or plans of any bridge over
St. Lawrence River. R.S., c. 193, s. 11.

## PART II
Interpretation

**12.** In this Part
owner" means the registered or other owner
at the time any wreck, obstruction or
obstacle, as is in this Part referred to, was
occasioned, and also includes subsequent
purchaser;
vessel" includes every description of ship,
boat or craft of any kind, whether propelled
by steam or otherwise, and whether used as
a sea-going vessel or on inland waters only ;
including everything forming part of the
machinery, tackle, equipment, cargo, stores
or ballast of such vessel. R.S., c. 193, s. 12.
General

**13.** (1) Where the navigation of any navi
gable water over which the Parliament of
Canada has jurisdiction is obstructed, impeded
or rendered more difficult or dangerous by
the wreck, sinking, lying ashore or grounding
of any vessel or part thereof or other thing,
the owner, master or person in charge of such
vessel or other thing, by which any such
obstruction or obstacle is caused, shall forth
with give notice of the existence thereof to
the Minister or to the collector of customs
and excise at the nearest or most convenient
port, and shall place and, as long as such
obstruction or obstacle continues, maintain,
by day, a sufficient signal, and, by night, a
sufficient light to indicate the position thereof.
(2) The Minister may cause such signal and
light to be placed and maintained, if the
owner, master or person in charge of such
vessel or other thing by which the obstruction
or obstacle is caused fails or neglects so to do.
(3) The owner of such vessel or thing shall
begin the removal thereof, and shall
such removal diligently to comple
; but nothing in this subsection shall be
to limit the powers of the Minister
this Act. R.S., c. 193, s. 13.

**14.** The Minister may, if, in his opinion,
  * (_a_) the navigation of any such navigable
water is obstructed, impeded or rendered
more difficult or dangerous by reason of
the wreck, sinking, partially sinking, or
lying ashore or grounding of any vessel, or
of any part thereof, or of any other thing,
(6) by reason of the situation of any wreck
or any vessel, or any part thereof, or of any
other thing so lying, sunk, partially sunk,
ashore or grounded, the navigation of any
such navigable water is likely to be
obstructed, impeded or rendered more
difficult or dangerous, or
  * (_c_) any vessel or part thereof, wreck or other
thing cast ashore, stranded or left upon any
property belonging to Her Majesty in right
of Canada, is an obstacle or obstruction to
such use of that property as may be required
for the public purposes of Canada,
cause such wreck, vessel or part thereof or
other thing, if the same continues for more
than twenty-four hours, to be removed or
destroyed in such manner and by such means
as he thinks fit. U.S., c. 193, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Minister may cause such vessel,
or its cargo, or anything causing or forming
part of any such obstruction or obstacle, to be
conveyed to such place as he thinks proper,
and to be there sold by auction or otherwise
as he deems most advisable ; and the Minister
may apply the proceeds of the sale to make
good the expenses incurred by him in placing
and maintaining any signal or light to
indicate the position of the obstruction or
obstacle, or in the removal, destruction or sale
of the vessel, cargo or thing.
(2) The Minister shall pay over any surplus
of such proceeds or portion thereof to the
owner of the vessel, cargo or thing sold, or to
such other persons as are entitled to the same
R.S., c. 193, s. 15.
of a vessel or part thereof or any other
thing that, because of its wreck, sinking,
lying ashore or grounding, caused or was
likely to cause the navigation of any
navigable water over which the Parliament
of Canada has jurisdiction to become
obstructed, impeded or rendered more
difficult or dangerous,
(6) caused to be removed or destroyed any
vessel or part thereof, wreck or any other
thing that, because of its wreck, sinking,
lying ashore or grounding, caused or was
likely to cause the navigation of any such
navigable water to become obstructed,
impeded or rendered more difficult or
dangerous, or
  * (_c_) caused to be removed or destroyed any
vessel or part thereof, wreck or any other
thing cast ashore, stranded or left upon any
public property belonging to Her Majesty
in right of Canada,
and the cost thereof has been defrayed out of
public moneys of Canada, the amount of such
cost, whether or not a sale has been held
under section 15, constitutes a debt due to
and recoverable by Her Majesty in right of
Canada
  * (_d_) from the owner, managing owner, master
or person in charge of the vessel or other
thing at the time of the wreck, sinking,
partial sinking, lying ashore or grounding
thereof, or
  * (_e_) from any person through whose act or
fault or through the act or fault of whose
servant the sinking, partial sinking, lying
ashore or grounding of the vessel or other
thing was occasioned or continued.
(2) Any sum so recovered forms part of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 193, s.
16; 1953-54, c. 37, s. 1.

**17.** (1) Where a vessel has been left
anchored, moored or adrift in any navigable
in such a manner that, in the opinion
the Minister, it obstructs or is likely to
navigation in such waters, the
Minister may order the owner, managing
owner, master or person in charge of the vessel
to remove that vessel to such place as the
Minister deems fit.
(2) Where a person fails forthwith to comply
with an order given to him pursuant to
subsection (1),
  * (_a_) he is liable on summary conviction to a
fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ;
and
  * (_b_) the Minister may order the vessel to be
removed to such place as he deems fit, and
the costs of removal of the vessel shall be
recoverable against the person as a debt
due to Her Majesty. 1968-69, c. 15, s. 9.

**18.** When any vessel or other thing is
wrecked, sunk, partially sunk, lying ashore,
or grounded in any navigable water in
Canada, the vessel and its cargo and every
part thereof or other thing shall be deemed
to be abandoned at the expiration of two
years from the date of such casualty, and
thereupon the Minister, under such restrictions
as to him seem fit, may authorize any person
to take possession of and remove the vessel or
other thing for that person s own benefit,
upon giving to the owner, where known, one
month s notice, and, where unknown, by
public notice for a similar period in a local
paper published nearest to the place of the
wrecked vessel or other thing. R.S., c. 193,
s. 17.

**19.** No person shall throw or deposit or
cause, suffer or permit to be thrown or
deposited any sawdust, edgings, slabs, bark or
like rubbish of any description whatever that
is liable to interfere with navigation in any
water, any part of which is navigable or that
flows into any navigable water. 1968-69, c. 15,
s. 10.

**20.** No person shall throw or deposit or
cause, suffer or permit to be thrown or
deposited any stone, gravel, earth, cinders,
ashes or other material or rubbish that is
liable to sink to the bottom in any water, any
part of which is navigable or that flows into
any navigable water, where there are not at
least twenty fathoms of water at all times,
nothing in this section shall be construed
as to permit the throwing or depositing of
any substance in any part of a navigable
where such action is prohibited by or
under any other Act. 1968-69, c. 15, s. 10.

**21.** The Governor in Council, when it is
shown to his satisfaction that the public
interest would not be injuriously affected
thereby, may, from time to time, by procla
mation, declare any rivers, streams or waters
referred to in sections 19 and 20, or any part
or parts thereof, exempt in whole or in part
from the operation of those sections, and
may, from time to time, revoke such procla
mation. 1968-69, c. 15, s. 12.

**22.** Nothing in this Part affects the legal
powers, rights or duties of harbour commis
sioners, harbour masters, port wardens, the
National Harbours Board or The St. Lawrence
Seaway Authority in respect of materials that,
under this Part, are not allowed to be
deposited in navigable waters. 1968-69, c. 15,
s. 14.

**23.** The Minister may appoint places in
any navigable waters not within the jurisdic
tion of any of the officers or corporations
mentioned in section 22 where stone, gravel,
earth, cinders, ashes or other material may be
deposited notwithstanding that the minimum
depth of water at any such place may be less
than twenty fathoms, and may make rules
regulating the deposit of such materials. 1968-
69, c. 15, s. 14.

**24.** Every person required by this Part to
give notice to the Minister or to a collector of
customs of any obstruction or obstacle to
navigation, or to place and maintain thereon
or contiguous thereto any signal or light, who
fails to give such notice or so to place or
maintain such signal or light is guilty of an
offence and liable on summary conviction to
a fine hot exceeding five thousand dollars for
each offence. 1968-69, c. 15, s. 14.

**25.** Any person who contravenes section 19
is guilty of an offence and liable on summary

**26.** Any person who contravenes section 20
is guilty of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars, and in any case where any
materials referred to in that section are thrown
from or deposited by a vessel and a conviction
is obtained therefor, the vessel is liable for
the fine and may be detained by any port
warden or collector of customs until it is paid.
1968-69, c. 15, s. 14.

## PART III
Interpretation

**27.** In this Part
"ferry cable" includes any ferry cable, rod,
chain or other device put across, over, in or
under any navigable water for working a
ferry ;
"swing or draw bridge" means any swing or
draw bridge other than a railway bridge.
R.S., c. 193, s. 30.
General

**28.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations to govern
  * (_a_) the laying, stretching or maintaining of
any ferry cable across, over, in or under any
navigable water ;
(6) the maintenance of lights and any other
precautions for the safety of navigation in
connection with any such ferry cable ;
  * (_c_) the opening and closing of any swing or
draw bridge over any navigable water ; and
  * (_d_) the maintenance of lights and any other
precautions for the safety of navigation in
connection with such bridge. R.S., c. 193,
s. 31.

**29.** Any regulation made under this Part
may prescribe therein the punishment to be
imposed on summary conviction for any
violations thereof, but such punishment shall
not exceed a fine of five hundred dollars or
imprisonment for a term of six months, or
both. 1968-69, c. 15, s. 15.
