
# CHAPTER N-2
An Act to establish a corporation for the
administration of the National Arts
Centre

## SHORT TITLE
\ m This Act may be cited as the National
Arts Centre Act. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Board of Trustees of the
Corporation;
"Centre" means the National Arts Centre
located in the city of Ottawa ;
"Corporation" means the National Arts
Centre Corporation established by section
3;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"performing arts" means the arts of the
theatre and the concert hall, including the
creating, staging and performing of drama,
music and the dance. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 2.

## CORPORATION ESTABLISHED

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
be known as the National Arts Centre
Corporation consisting of a Board of Trustees
composed of a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman,
the persons from time to time holding office
as
  * (_a_) the Mayor of the Corporation of the
city of Ottawa,
(6) the Mayor of the city of Hull,
  * (_c_) the Director of the Canada Council,
  * (_d_) the President of the Canadian Broad
casting Corporation, and
  * (_e_) the Government Film Commissioner,
and nine other members to be appointed as
provided in section 4. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman
of the Board shall be appointed by the
Governor in Council for such terms, not
exceeding four years each, as are fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) Each of the members of the Board,
other than the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman
and those holding the offices set out in
paragraphs 3(a) to (e), shall be appointed by
the Governor in Council for terms not
exceeding three years, except that of those
members first appointed, three shall be
appointed for a term of two years, three shall
be appointed for a term of three years and
three shall be appointed for a term of four
years.
(3) A person who has served two consecutive
terms as Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the
Board or as a member of the Board appointed
under subsection (2) is not, during the twelve
months following the completion of his second
term, eligible to be re-appointed to the Board
in the capacity in which he so served.
(4) A vacancy in the membership of the
Board does not impair the right of the
remaining members to act. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 4.

**5.** Each member of the Board, other than
a member who is in receipt of a salary fixed
by the Governor in Council, shall be paid by
the Corporation, for each day he attends any
meeting of the Board or of any committee of
the Board, such remuneration as is fixed by
by-law of the Board, and each member of the
Board is entitled to be paid by the Corporation
such travelling and living expenses incurred
by him in connection with the performance
of his duties as are fixed by by-law of the
Board. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 5.

## DIRECTOR

**6.** (1) There shall be a Director of the
to be appointed by the Board to hold
for a term not exceeding five years.
(2) A person appointed as Director is
for re-appointment.
(3) The Director shall be paid by the
Corporation such salary as is fixed by the
Governor in Council. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Director is the chief executive
officer of the Corporation, and has supervision
over and direction of the work and the staff
of the Corporation.
(2) If the Director is absent or unable to
perform the duties of his office or the office
is vacant, the Board may authorize an officer
of the Corporation to act as Director. 1966-67,
c. 48, s. 7.

## OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

**8.** The Corporation may employ such
officers and employees and such technical
and professional advisers as it considers
necessary for the proper conduct of its
activities at such remuneration and upon such
other terms and conditions as it deems fit.
1966-67, c. 48, s. 8.

## OBJECTS AND POWERS OF THE CORPORATION

**9.** (1) The objects of the Corporation are
to operate and maintain the Centre, to
develop the performing arts in the National
Capital region and to assist the Canada
Council in the development of the performing
arts elsewhere in Canada.
(2) In furtherance of its objects, but without
limiting the generality of subsection (1), the
Corporation may
  * (_a_) arrange for and sponsor performing arts
activities at the Centre ;
  * (_b_) encourage and assist in the development
of performing arts companies resident at
the Centre ;
  * (_c_) arrange for or sponsor radio and televi
sion broadcasts from the Centre and the
showing of films in the Centre ;
  * (_d_) provide accommodation at the Centre,
on such terms and conditions as the
Corporation may fix, for national and local
organizations whose objects include the
development and encouragement of the
performing arts in Canada ; and
  * (_e_) at the request of the Government of
Canada or the Canada Council, arrange for
performances elsewhere in Canada by
performing arts companies, whether resident
or non-resident in Canada, and arrange for
performances outside Canada by perform
ing arts companies resident in Canada.
1966-67, c. 48, s. 9.

**10.** In carrying out its objects under this
Act the Corporation may
  * (_a_) acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise
any real or personal property, including
securities, and hold, manage or dispose
thereof as it may determine ;
(6) acquire by gift, bequest or devise any
real or personal property and may, not
withstanding anything in this Act, expend,
administer or dispose of any such property,
subject to the terms, if any, upon which it
was given, bequeathed or devised to the
Corporation ;
  * (_c_) operate restaurants, lounges, parking
facilities, shops and other facilities in the
Centre for the use of the public, and lease
or otherwise make available, on such terms
and conditions as it sees fit, any such
facilities or space therefor ;
  * (_d_) expend any moneys appropriated by
Parliament for the purposes of the Corpo
ration or received by the Corporation from
its operation of the Centre, including any
moneys received by it from leasing or
otherwise making available any facilities in
the Centre described in paragraph (c) or
space therefor ; and
  * (_e_) generally, do and authorize such things
as it may deem necessary for the attainment
of the objects and the exercise of the powers
of the Corporation. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 10.

**11.** The Board may make by-laws
  * (_a_) for the regulation of its proceedings,
including the establishment of special and
standing committees of the Board, the
mittees consisting of members of the Board
and persons other than members ;
  * (_c_) subject to the approval of the Minister,
fixing the remuneration and travelling and
living expenses to be paid to members of
the Board as provided in this Act ; and
  * (_d_) generally, for the conduct and manage
ment of its activities. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 11.

## GENERAL

**12.** The head office of the Corporation
shall be at the city of Ottawa. 1966-67, c. 48,
s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Director and the officers and
employees of the Corporation shall be deemed
to be employed in the Public Service for the
purposes of the Public Service Superannuation
Act and the Corporation shall be deemed to
be a Public Service corporation for the
purposes of section 25 of that Act.
(2) For the purposes of the Government
Employees Compensation Act and any regula
tion made pursuant to section 7 of the
Aeronautics Act, the Director and the officers
and employees of the Corporation shall be
deemed to be employees in the public service
of Canada. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 13.
J4 t T ne Corporation is not an agent of
TT -i/r J -J j
Her Majesty and, except as provided in
section 13, the Director and the officers and
employees of the Corporation are not part of
the public service. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 14.

**15.** The Corporation shall be deemed to
be a charitable organization in Canada
fa) as described in paragraph 69(1)(/) of the
Income Tax Act, for the purposes of that
Act ; and
  * (_b_) as described in subparagraph 7(l)(cf)(i)
of the Estate Tax Act, for the purposes of
that Act. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 15.

**16.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Corporation shall be audited annually
by the Auditor General of Canada and a
of the audit shall be made to the
Chairman of the Board. 1966-67, c. 48, s. 16.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**17.** The Chairman of the Board shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, submit to the Minister a
report of all proceedings under this Act for
that fiscal year, including the financial
statement of the Corporation, and the Auditor
General s report thereon, and the Minister
shall cause such report to be laid before
Parliament within fifteen days after the
receipt thereof, or, if Parliament is not then
sitting, on any of the first fifteen days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting. 1966-67,
c. 48, s. 17.
