
## CHAPTER N-2 1
An Act respecting the supplying of electrical
power and other public utilities in
northern Canada. 1956, c. 42, s. 1.

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Northern
Canada Power Commission Act. 1956, c. 42,
s. 2.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" means the Northern Canada
Power Commission ;
"member" means a member of the Commis
sion;
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development ;
"municipality" includes a municipal district
and a local improvement district established
under an Ordinance of the Northwest
Territories or the Yukon Territory ;
"plant" means facilities for the generation,
supply, control, transmission or distribution
of a public utility and includes the site
thereof, and all land, water, rights to use
water, buildings, works, machinery, instal
lations, materials, transmission lines, distri
bution lines, pipelines, furnishings and
equipment, construction plant, stores and
supplies acquired, constructed or used or
adapted for or in connection therewith ;
"project" means any scheme for the develop
ment of or addition to or the construction,
purchase or rental of a plant and includes
the investigation of any such scheme ;
"public utility" means
  * (_a_) electric energy produced by hydraulic,
electrical, steam or internal combustion
engine or by gas, oil or any other process,
(6) thermal energy in the form of steam,
hot water or hot air produced by any process
for heating buildings or for domestic use or
for use in any commercial manufacturing
enterprise or industrial process,
  * (_c_) water supplied for domestic use or for
use in any commercial or manufacturing
enterprise or industrial process,
  * (_d_) sewerage services, and
  * (_e_) telephone systems ;
"rates" means the charges set or made for the
supply of a public utility and includes all
conditions of supply pertaining thereto.
1956, c. 42, s. 2; 1966^67, c. 25, s. 40.

## COMMISSION ESTABLISHED

**3.** (1) There is hereby established for the
purposes set forth in this Act a corporation to
be called the Northern Canada Power Com
mission.
(2) The Commission shall consist of one
member to be appointed by the Governor in
Council to be chairman and not more than
two additional members to be appointed by
the Governor in Council.
(3) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Commission.
(4) The members of the Commission hold
office during pleasure.
(5) Each member of the Commission shall
be paid such sums for his services as the
Governor in Council may determine.
(6) A vacancy in the membership of the
Commission does not impair the right of the
members to act.
(7) Where the membership consists of two
three members, two members constitute a
(8) The Commission may make rules for
regulation of its proceedings and the
of its duties and functions under
Act.
(9) The Commission shall comply with any
directions from time to time given to it by
the Governor in Council or the Minister
respecting the exercise of its powers. R.S., c.
196,s.3; 1956, c. 42, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Commission is for all its purposes
an agent of Her Majesty and its powers may
be exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) For the purposes of this Act the
Commission may in its own name enter into
contracts and acquire or hold real and personal
property or any interest therein.
(3) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Commission on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Commission in the
name of the Commission in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Commission
were not an agent of Her Majesty. R.S., c.
196, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Commission may employ such
officers and servants as it deems necessary to
carry out this Act, but, subject to subsection
(2), the rates of remuneration and the terms
or conditions of employment shall be such as
are approved by the Governor in Council.
(2) Where it is necessary for any project or
for the proper operation and maintenance of
any plant, the Commission may employ a
person for a period not exceeding three
months at such rates of remuneration and on
such terms and conditions of employment as
are fixed by the Commission. R.S., c. 196, s.
5; 1956, c. 42, s. 4.

## POWERS

**6.** (1) The Commission may construct,
purchase, rent or otherwise acquire, operate
and maintain plants within the Northwest
Territories or the Yukon Territory and, with
approval of the Governor in Council but
to the laws of the province in which
the powers under this section are exercised,
in Canada, and for those purposes
  * (_a_) undertake surveys and engineering
investigations for the development of
projects ;
(6) construct, make, purchase, rent or estab
lish every kind of structure, excavation, or
installation suitable for or necessary to the
development, operation or maintenance of
plants or projects ;
  * (_c_) purchase or rent equipment and facilities
for the development, operation or mainte
nance of plants or projects ;
  * (_d_) construct and maintain dams for storage
and power purposes, and flood and overflow
land for the storage of water ;
  * (_e_) raise or lower the levels of rivers, lakes,
streams and other bodies of water, and
make stream or river diversions ;
(/) enter upon and erect plants on, under or
over any roads, railways, rivers, streams,
waterways or lands ;
  * (_g_) develop, improve and operate any
property of the Commission ;
  * (_h_) purchase public utilities from any
person ;
  * (_t_) sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of
any personal property of the Commission
and, with the approval of the Governor in
Council, any real property of the Commis
sion ; and
0) do such other things as it deems
expedient for or conducive to the attainment
of the purposes set forth in this section.
(2) The Commission is entitled to receive
upon application any licence or other authori
ty under the Dominion Water Power Act
necessary to enable the Commission to carry
out this Act.
(3) The Commission shall not with respect
to any project undertake or enter into any
contract, other than for maintenance or
for the construction, making, erection,
or installation of any works, exca
undertakings, equipment or facilities,
involving a total estimated expenditure
exceeding fifty thousand dollars unless the
of the project by the Commission
been approved by the Governor in
R.S., c. 196, s. 6; 1956, c. 42, s. 5.

## EXPROPRIATION

**7.** (1) With the prior approval of the
Governor in Council the Commission may
without the consent of the owner take lands
for the purposes of this Act and, except as
otherwise provided in this section, all the
provisions of the Expropriation Act are, mutatis
mutandis, applicable to the taking or aban
donment of lands by the Commission.
(2) For the purposes of section 9 of the
Expropriation Act the plan and description
may be signed by the Chairman or any other
member of the Commission or by a Dominion
land surveyor.
(3) The Commission shall pay compensa
tion for lands taken under this section or for
damage to lands injuriously affected by the
construction of any power plant and all claims
against the Commission for such compensation
may be heard and determined in the
Exchequer Court of Canada in accordance
with the rules and practice of that Court and
in accordance with sections 46 to 49 of the
Exchequer Court Act.
(4) The Commission shall pay out of the
funds administered by it the compensation
agreed upon or adjudged by the Exchequer
Court to be payable.
(5) In this section the expression "take
lands" includes enter upon, take possession
of, use and take lands for a limited time or
otherwise or for a limited estate or interest.
R.S., c. 196,s.7.

**8.** Where any plant is acquired by the
Commission with or without the consent of
the owner, the Commission may by order
release the owner from all his obligations
relating to the generation, purchase or supply
of public utilities from the plant so acquired
and the order is binding on all persons. 1956,
c. 42, s. 6.
SUPPLY OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

**9.** The Commission may supply public
utilities to municipalities, organizations, cor
or individuals, or to such districts
or areas as may be established by the
Commission for convenience of administration
and supply of public utilities. 1956, c. 42, s. 6.

**10.** The Commission shall, with the approv
al of the Governor in Council, establish
schedules or ranges of rates for public utilities
supplied by it under this Act, but the rates to
be charged within those schedules or ranges
shall not be less than the estimated cost to
the Commission, as determined by it, of
supplying the public utility, which cost shall
include:
  * (_a_) payments in respect of the interest on,
and in respect of the principal amount of
advances made or deemed to have been
made to the Commission under this Act in
respect of the plant from which the public
utility was supplied ;
  * (_b_) the cost of operating, maintaining and
repairing that plant, and the payment of
charges or rentals in connection therewith;
  * (_c_) the cost of administration by the
Commission and the salaries, travelling
expenses and other expenses of the members
of the Commission and its staff, including
payments required for superannuation pur
poses and for workmen s compensation as
provided by the Government Employees
Compensation Act, and all other expendi
tures of the Commission, as attributed by
the Commission to that plant ; and
  * (_d_) the establishment and maintenance of
a contingency reserve fund in the amount
considered necessary by the Commission to
meet unforeseen or emergency expenditures.
1956, c. 42, s. 6.
H. The Commission may enter into agree
ments with any person for,
  * (_a_) the supply of public utilities at rates
authorized under section 10;
  * (_b_) the use of the Commission s facilities
and equipment ; and
  * (_c_) the attainment of the intent and
purposes of this Act. 1956, c. 42, s. 6.
J2. The Commission shall annually review
in accordance with section 10, but subject
any contract entered into under section 11,
adjust, if necessary, the rates for public
supplied. 1956, c. 42, s. 6.

**13.** The Commission may investigate a
project and advise the Minister or the
Commissioner of the Northwest Territories or
the Commissioner of the Yukon Territory, as
the case may be, of the areas that might be
served, the estimated amount of capital
required, and the proposed rates that in the
opinion of the Commission would produce
revenue equal to the costs specified in section

**10.** 1956, c. 42, s. 6.

**14.** (1) The Minister of Finance shall out
of the Consolidated Revenue Fund pay to
the Commission the sum of fifty thousand
dollars as a fund for the purpose of meeting
expenditures incurred by the Commission in
carrying out investigations in accordance with
section 13.
(2) If a project investigated pursuant to
section 13 is developed by the Commission,
the cost of the investigation shall be included
in the cost of the development, and the
expenditures that were made from the fund
established under this section shall be restored
to the fund by the Commission and shall
constitute a direct charge against the capital
cost of the development.
(3) If a project investigated pursuant to
section 13 is not undertaken or proceeded
with, an amount equal to the expenditures
made for such investigation work out of the
fund established under this section shall be
included from time to time in the Estimates
submitted by the Minister to the Governor in
Council. 1956, c. 42, s. 6.

**15.** (1) The Minister of Finance may, on
such terms and conditions as may be approved
by the Governor in Council, make advances
to the Commission for the purpose of capital
expenditures under this Act out of moneys
appropriated by Parliament for that purpose.
(2) The Minister of Finance may, from time
to time, with the approval of, and on such
terms and conditions as ma} be approved by,
the Governor in Council, make advances to
the Commission for the purpose of capital
expenditures under this Act from unappro-
money in the Consolidated Revenue
of amounts not exceeding at any one
time one million dollars, and an amount
to the expenditures made from such
advances in any fiscal year shall be included
in the Estimates for the following fiscal year
submitted by the Minister to the Governor in
Council, but where Parliament appropriates
moneys to be advanced to the Commission
for the purpose of capital expenditures under
this Act after an advance has been made
under this subsection, that advance, or an
amount thereof equal to the moneys so
appropriated, shall thereafter be deemed to
have been made out of that appropriation
and not under the authority of this subsection.
R.S., c. 196, s. 15.

**6.** (1) Moneys advanced to the Commis
sion under this Act shall be deposited in such
bank as the Minister of Finance, from time to
time, directs and be credited to an account
designated the Northern Canada Power
Commission Capital Account in this Act
called the "Capital Account".
(2) An advance made to the Commission
by the Minister of Finance under this Act
shall be made on the following terms :
  * (_a_) interest on the amount of the advance
at such rate as the Governor in Council
may prescribe shall accrue due at the end
of each fiscal year until the end of the
fiscal year in which the project in respect
of which the advance was made is deter
mined by the Minister to have been
completed and the amount of the interest
then accrued due shall be added to the
amount of the advance and the total
amount shall be deemed to be the principal
amount of the advance for the purposes of
paragraph (6) ; and
(6) at the end of each fiscal year thereafter
interest at the rate prescribed under para
graph (a) shall be payable on the unpaid
principal amount of the advance together
with such part of the principal amount as
will result in payment of the principal
amount and interest in equal annual
instalments during such period as the
Governor in Council may prescribe, such
period being referred to in this Act as the
"amortization period".
ernor (3) Notwithstanding in . ^ Council may, subsection on the request (2), the of Gov- the
Commission, relieve the Commission from the
liability to make the first payment in respect
of the principal amount of an advance, or the
first two payments in respect of the principal
amount of an advance, at the time or times
the payment or payments are payable, but in
such case the whole principal amount shall be
payable during the remainder of the amorti
zation period of that advance so that the
principal amount and interest are payable in
equal annual instalments during the remain
der of the period. R.S., c. 196, s. 16; 1956, c.
42, s. 7.

**17.** All moneys realized by the Commission
from the sale or other disposition of capital
equipment, supplies or material or any other
capital assets of the Commission shall be
deposited in the Capital Account. R.S., c. 196,
s. 17.

**18.** The Commission shall execute and
deliver to the Minister of Finance, in such
form as he may approve, certificates evidenc
ing its indebtedness in respect of any advance
made or deemed to have been made to the
Commission under this Act and the terms and
conditions under which the advance was
made. R.S., c. 196, s. 18.

**19.** The Commission may expend moneys
deposited in the Capital Account for capital
purposes but, except as provided in section
20, no expenditures shall be made by the
Commission out of the Capital Account
except for capital purposes. R.S., c. 196, s. 19.

## OPERATING

**20.** (1) The Commission shall collect and
receive all revenue derived from the operation
of any of its plants or from the rental of its
equipment, land or structures, the sale of
supplies, equipment and assets (other than
capital supplies, equipment and assets) and
the use of water under its control for its
purposes or otherwise arising out of its
operations under this Act, and all moneys so
received shall be deposited in such bank as
the Minister of Finance, from time to time,
directs and be credited to a Special Account
designated the Northern Canada Power
Commission Special Account, and in this Act
called the "Special Account".
(2) The Commission may make payments
out of the Special Account for its operations
under this Act.
(3) Whenever the amount to the credit of
tne SP ec i a l Account is insufficient for pay-
ments authorized to be made therefrom under
this Act, the Commission may make such
payments from the Capital Account as are
necessary for those purposes but all payments
made from the Capital Account, other than
payments made for capital purposes, shall be
repaid to the Capital Account from the
Special Account as soon as the amount to the
credit of the Special Account is sufficient for
that purpose. R.S., c. 196, s. 20; 1956, c. 42, s.
2 1. (1) The Commission may from time to
time invest any funds held by it that are not
immediately required for its purposes in bonds
or securities of, or guaranteed by, the
Government of Canada and may sell such
bonds or securities as and when it deems it
expedient to do so.
(2) Revenue earned from the investment of
such funds shall be credited to the appropriate
account of the plant or project in respect of
which such moneys were acquired or
accumulated by the Commission. 1956, c. 42,
s. 9.

**22.** Any surplus amount in the Special
Account at the end of a fiscal year after
providing for the payments and commitments
authorized under this Act for that fiscal year
shall be held in the Special Account for not
less than six months after the close of that
fiscal year and after that time may, if
recommended by the Commission and
approved by the Governor in Council, be
applied by the Commission in reduction of
rates in such manner as may be so recom
mended and approved, or may be used for
the extension, expansion or improvement of
the plant in respect of which such surplus
funds accrued. 1956, c. 42, s. 9.

## GENERAL

**23.** (1) The Commission may make such
as may be necessary with the
Minister of Supply and Services for the
accounting of the receipts and expenditures
of the Commission.
(2) All accounts of the Commission are
subject to the audit of the Auditor General of
Canada. R.S., c. 196, s. 23; 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 105.

**24.** The Commission shall, as soon as
possible, but within three months after the
termination of each fiscal year, submit an
annual report to the Minister in such form as
he may prescribe, and the Minister shall lay
the report before Parliament within fifteen
days or if Parliament is not then in session
within fifteen days after the commencement
of the next ensuing session. R.S., c. 196, s. 24.

**25.** The Commission may prescribe and
collect fees for permits for electrical installa
tions using electrical energy supplied by the
Commission, and for the inspection, testing
and approval of all such works. 1956, c. 42,
s. 10.

**26.** In case any plant of the Commission,
or any part thereof, becomes damaged so that
the Commission is unable to supply any
public utility, the Commission shall make
repairs as promptly as possible, and, pending
repairs, shall take all reasonable steps to
supply the public utility from other sources,
if such is available ; but in no case shall the
Commission be held responsible for any claims
for financial losses or inconvenience caused
to any person by reason of its failure to
supply any public utility. 1956, c. 42, s. 10.

**27.** The Commission may set rates for the
use of water stored in any of its reservoirs for
power purposes that is surplus to the immedi
ate needs of the Commission, and such rates
may be charged either on the basis of cubic
feet per second, or acre feet. R.S., c. 196, s. 27.

**28.** (1) Where the Commission has surplus
electrica] or thermal energy not under contract
or otherwise required by the Commission, it
may, at its discretion, supply such energy if,
as and when available, at such rates as the
Commission may determine from time to
time, and section 10 does not apply in such
rate determination.
(2) The supply of surplus energy under
subsection (1) is in no way obligatory on the
part of the Commission, and the Commission
is not responsible for any damages or claims
arising from the discontinuing of any such
energy that may have been supplied. 1956, c.
42, s. 11.
