
# CHAPTER N-3
An Act respecting the development and
improvement of the National Capital
Region

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** Thi s Act may be cited as the National
Capital Act. 1958, c. 37, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the
Commission ;
"Commission" means the National Capital
Commission referred to in section 3 ;
"department" means a department, division
or branch of the Government of Canada,
and includes any board, commission, corpo
ration or other body being an agent of Her
Majesty ;
"Fund" means the National Capital Fund
established by this Act ;
"Her Majesty" means Her Majesty in right
of Canada ;
"highway" includes any street, road, lane,
thoroughfare or driveway ;
"local municipality" means a municipality
wholly or partly within the National Capital
Region ;
"member" means a member of the Commis
sion ;
"Minister" means the Prime Minister of
Canada or such other member of the
Queen s Privy Council for Canada as is
designated by the Governor in Council ;
Capital Region" means the seat of
the Government of Canada and its sur-
rounding area, more particularly described
in the schedule ;
"property" means real or personal property
or any interest therein ;
"property of the Commission" means property
under the control and management of, or
vested in the name of, the Commission ;
"public lands" means real property or any
interest therein, under the control and
management of a department ;
"Vice-Chairman" means the Vice-Chairman
of the Commission ;
"work" means any work, structure or under
taking. 1958, c. 37, s. 2.

## CONSTITUTION OF COMMISSION

**3.** (1) There shall be a corporation, to be
called the National Capital Commission,
consisting of twenty members, each of whom
shall be appointed by the Governor in Council
to hold office during pleasure for a term not
exceeding four years.
(2) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members to be Chairman and one
of the members to be Vice-Chairman.
(3) The members, other than the Chairman
and Vice-Chairman, shall be appointed as
follows:
  * (_a_) at least one member from each of the
ten provinces ;
  * (_b_) at least two members from the city of
Ottawa;
  * (_c_) at least one member from the city of
Hull;
  * (_d_) at least one member from a local
municipality in Ontario other than the city
of Ottawa ; and
  * (_e_) at least one member from a local
municipality in Quebec other than the city
of Hull.
(4) A member is eligible to be appointed
from a province or municipality if, at the
time of his appointment, he normally resides
therein.
(5) A person who has served two consecutive
terms as a member, other than Chairman, is
not, during the twelve months following the
of his second term, eligible to be
to the Commission in the
in which he so served.
(6) A vacancy in the membership of the
Commission does not impair the right of the
remainder to act.
(7) The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not apply to a member unless the
Governor in Council otherwise directs.
(8) A member who is present at a meeting
at which is discussed any matter in which he
has, directly or indirectly, a pecuniary interest,
shall declare his interest and shall refrain
from casting a vote in respect of such matter.
1958, c. 37, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Commission is, for all purposes
of this Act, an agent of Her Majesty, and its
powers under this Act may be exercised only
as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Commission may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Commission.
(3) Property acquired by the Commission
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Commission.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Commission on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Commission in the
name of the Commission in any court that
would have jurisdiction if the Commission
were not an agent of Her Majesty. 1958, c. 37,
s. 4.

**5.** (1) The head office of the Commission
shall be at the city of Ottawa.
(2) The Commission shall meet at least
three times a year in the city of Ottawa, and
it may meet at such other times in the
National Capital Region as the Commission
deems necessary. 1958, c. 37, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Commission.
(2) If the Chairman is absent or unable to
act or the office is vacant, the Vice-Chairman
has and may exercise all the powers and
functions of the Chairman.
(3) The Commission may authorize one of
its members to act as Chairman for the time
being in the event that the Chairman and
Vice-Chairman are absent or unable to act or
the offices are vacant. 1958, c. 37, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Chairman shall be paid a salary
to be fixed by the Governor in Council, and
the Governor in Council may authorize the
payment of allowances or other remuneration
to the Vice-Chairman and to any other
member having special duties.
(2) Each member is entitled to be paid
reasonable travelling and other expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his
duties. 1958, c. 37, s. 7.

## OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint a Genera] Manager to hold office
during pleasure who shall be paid a salary to
be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) Subject to the plan of organization and
terms and conditions of employment approved
under subsection (3), the Commission may
employ such officers and employees and such
consultants and advisers as it deems necessary
for the purpose of this Act and may fix their
remuneration and terms and conditions of
employment.
(3) The Governor in Council may approve
a plan of organization for the establishment
and classification of the continuing positions
necessary for the proper functioning of the
Commission and the establishment of rates of
compensation for each class of position, and
such other terms and conditions of employ
ment as are considered desirable. 1958, c. 37,
s. 8.

## COMMITTEES

**9.** (1) There shall be an Executive Com
mittee of the Commission consisting of the
as are delegated to it by the
Commission and shall submit at each meeting
of the Commission minutes of its proceedings
since the last preceding meeting of the
Commission.
(3) The Commission may appoint a Na
tional Capital Planning Committee and such
other committees as it considers necessary or
desirable for the administration of this Act.
(4) Each member of the Executive Com
mittee or other committee established under
this section is entitled to be paid reasonable
travelling and other expenses incurred by him
in the performance of his duties. 1958, c. 37,
s.9.

## OBJECTS, PURPOSES AND POWERS

**10.** (1) The objects and purposes of the
Commission are to prepare plans for and
assist in the development, conservation and
improvement of the National Capital Region
in order that the nature and character of the
seat of the Government of Canada may be in
accordance with its national significance.
(2) The Commission may for the purposes
of this Act,
  * (_a_) acquire, hold, administer or develop
property ;
(6) sell, grant, convey, lease or otherwise
dispose of or make available to any person
any property, subject to such conditions
and limitations as it considers necessary or
desirable;
  * (_c_) construct, maintain and operate parks,
squares, highways, parkways, bridges, build
ings and any other works ;
  * (_d_) maintain and improve any property of
the Commission, or any other property
under the control and management of a
department, at the request of the authority
or Minister in charge thereof;
  * (_e_) cooperate or engage in joint projects
with, or make grants to, local municipalities
or other authorities for the improvement,
development or maintenance of property;
  * (_j_) construct, maintain and operate, orgrant
concessions for the operation of, places of
entertainment, amusement, recreation,
refreshment, or other places of public
interest or accommodation upon any prop
erty of the Commission ;
  * (_g_) administer, preserve and maintain any
historic place or historic museum ;
  * (_h_) conduct investigations and researches in
connection with the planning of the Nation
al Capital Region; and
  * (_i_) generally, do and authorize such things
as are incidental or conducive to the
attainment of the objects and purposes of
the Commission and the exercise of its
powers. 1958, c. 37, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Commission shall, in accord
ance with general plans prepared under this
Act, coordinate the development of public
lands in the National Capital Region.
(2) Proposals for the location, erection,
alteration or extension of a building or other
work by any person on public lands, or by or
on behalf of a department, in the National
Capital Region shall be referred to the
Commission prior to the commencement of
the work.
(3) N O building or other work shall be
erected, altered or extended by or on behalf
of a department in the National Capital
Region unless the site, location and plans
thereof have first been approved by the
Commission.
(4) No person shall erect, alter or extend a
building or other work on public lands in the
National Capital Region unless the site,
location and plans thereof have first been
approved by the Commission.
(5) In any case where the Commission does
not give its approval under this section the
Governor in Council may give such approval.
(6) Any approval given under this section
may be subject to such terms and conditions
in relation to which the approval was
(7) This section does not apply to interior
alterations in a work or building. 1958, c. 37,
s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Commission may construct in
the National Capital Region, in accordance
with plans prepared under this Act, a railway
and related facilities.
(2) The Commission may sell, convey or
lease the railway and related facilities, or any
portion thereof, to any railway company or
enter into agreements with any railway
company for the sole, joint or several use of
such railway or facilities or portion thereof
and for the maintenance by such company of
such railway or facilities or portion thereof
and the operation thereof.
(3) The provisions of the Railway Act, with
such modifications as circumstances require,
are applicable to and in respect of the exercise
of the powers conferred by this section, but
nothing in this section shall be deemed to
constitute the Commission a railway company
except for the purpose of carrying out
subsection (2). 1958, c. 37, s. 12.

## EXPROPRIATION

**13.** (i) The Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, take or
acquire lands for the purpose of this Act
without the consent of the owner, and, except
as otherwise provided in this section, all the
provisions of the Expropriation Act, with such
modifications as circumstances require, are
applicable to and in respect of the exercise of
the powers conferred by this section and the
lands so taken or acquired.
(2) F or the purposes of section 9 of the
Expropriation Act the plan and description
may be signed by the Chairman or General
Manager of the Commission.
(3) The compensation for lands taken or
acquired under this section, or for damage to
lands injuriously affected by the construction
of any work by the Commission, shall be paid
by the Commission as though the lands were
acquired under the other provisions of this
Act, and all claims against the Commission
for such compensation or damage may be
heard and determined in the Exchequer Court
of Canada in accordance with sections 46 to
49 of the Exchequer Court Act; but nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to affect the
operation of section 34 of the Expropriation
Act. 1958, c. 37, s. 13.

## PROPERTY

**14.** Except with the approval of the
Governor in Council, the Commission shall
not
  * (_a_) dispose of any real property for a
consideration in excess of a value of ten
thousand dollars ;
(6) acquire any real property for a consid
eration in excess of a value of twenty-five
thousand dollars ; or
  * (_c_) enter into an agreement or lease endur
ing for a period in excess of five years. 1958,
c. 37, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Commission may pay grants
to a local municipality not exceeding the
taxes that might be levied by the municipality
in respect of any real property of the
Commission if the Commission were not an
agent of Her Majesty.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to parks
or to squares, highways or parkways or to
bridges or similar structures.
(3) The Commission may pay grants to the
appropriate authorities in respect of real
property of the Commission situated in
Gatineau Park not exceeding in any tax year
the amounts estimated by the Commission to
be sufficient to compensate such authorities
for the loss of tax revenue during that tax
in respect of municipal and school taxes
reason of the acquisition of the property
the Commission. 1958, c. 37, s. 15.

## FINANCIAL

**16.** (1) There shall be a special account in
Consolidated Revenue Fund, to be known
the National Capital Fund, to which shall
credited the amounts appropriated by
Parliament for the purposes of the Fund.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Minister
of Finance may, on the recommendation of
the Minister, out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund cause to be paid to the Commission
such amounts as are from time to time
required by the Commission to finance the
cost of capital projects approved by the
Governor in Council.
(3) The amounts paid to the Commission
under subsection (2) shall be charged to the
Fund, but a payment out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund under subsection (2) shall not
exceed the balance standing to the credit of
the Fund.
(4) The Minister of Finance may out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund advance to the
Commission such amounts by way of loan as
are authorized by Parliament, upon such
terms and conditions as to interest, terms of
repayment and otherwise as are approved by
the Governor in Council.
(5) In this section "capital project" means
  * (_a_) the construction or acquisition of parks,
squares, highways, parkways, bridges, rail
ways, buildings and any other works for the
purposes of this Act, or the acquisition of
property therefor ; or
  * (_b_) a contribution to a local municipality
or other authority in respect of the cost of
a project of the municipality or authority.
1958, c. 37, s. 16.

**17.** Subject to section 16, the Commission
may expend for any of the purposes of this
Act any money appropriated by Parliament
for the use of the Commission or received by
it through the conduct of its operations or by
bequest, donation or otherwise. 1958, c. 37,
s. 17.

## BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS

**18.** The Commission may make by-laws
for the conduct and management of its
activities and for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1958, c. 37, s. 18.

**19.** (i) The Governor in Council may make
regulations for the protection of any property
of the Commission and for preserving order
or preventing accidents thereon, and may
prescribe the punishment that may be imposed
on summary conviction for breach of any such
regulation, but the punishment so prescribed
shall not exceed a fine of five hundred dollars
or imprisonment for a term of six months, or
both.
(2) Where a vehicle is operated or parked
in contravention of any regulation, the owner
of the vehicle is liable to the penalties
prescribed by the regulations for such contra
vention, unless at the time of such contraven
tion the vehicle was not operated or parked,
as the case may be, by the owner or by any
other person with the owner s consent, express
or implied.
(3) Where a person is convicted for a
contravention of any of the regulations, the
convicting court may, at the time sentence is
imposed, order that person to pay to the
Commission an amount by way of satisfaction
or compensation for loss of or damage to
property suffered by the Commission as a
result of the contravention for which that
person was convicted ; and the order may,
upon the filing thereof in the superior court
of the province in which the trial was held,
be enforced as a judgment of that court.
(4) i n a prosecution for a violation of a
regulation, a certificate stating that any
property described therein is under the control
of the Commission and purporting to be
certified by the Commission or the Chairman,
General Manager, Chief Engineer, or Secre
tary of the Commission shall be received in
evidence without proof of the signature or the
official character of the person appearing to
have signed the certificate and without further
proof thereof, and is prima facie proof that

## GENERAL

**20.** The Commission may, if it sees fit,
accept any property by way of gift, bequest
or devise and may, subject to section 14 but
notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act, expend, administer or dispose of any
such property for the purposes of this Act,
subject to the terms, if any, upon which such
property was given, bequeathed or devised to
the Commission. 1958, c. 37, s. 20.

**21.** The Commission shall be deemed to
be a charitable organization in Canada
  * (_a_) as described in paragraph 69(1)(/) of the
Income Tax Act, for the purposes of that
Act, and
(6) as decribed in paragraph 7(l)(d) of the
Estate Tax Act, for the purposes of that
Act. 1958, c. 37, s. 21.

**22.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Commission shall be audited by the
Auditor General of Canada. 1958, c. 37, s. 22.

**23.** All works of the Commission, whether
constructed or executed before or after the
6th day of February 1959, are hereby declared
to be for the general advantage of Canada.
1958, c. 37, s. 23.

**24.** The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
apply to the Commission or to property of
the Commission. 1958, c. 37, s. 24.

**25.** The agreement entered into between
the Federal District Commission and the
Corporation of the City of Ottawa on the 7th
day of August 1956 respecting the conveyance
to the Corporation of the City of Ottawa of
and parts of the Townships of Fitzroy, North Gower,
and Osgoode, in the County of Carleton, Province of Ontario;
parts of the Townships of Pakenham, Ramsay and Beckwith,
in the County of Lanark, Province of Ontario ; parts of the
Townships of Russell and Cumberland in the County of Russell,
Province of Ontario ; the whole of the Township of Templeton
and parts of the Townships of Buckingham and Portland in the
County of Papineau, Province of Quebec; the whole of the
Townships of Hull and Eardley and parts of the Townships of
Wakefield and Masham in the County of Gatineau (formerly
the County of Hull), Province of Quebec; the whole of the
Township of Onslow and part of the Township of Aldfield in
the County of Pontiac, in the Province of Quebec; and in
cluding the whole of the city of Hull, in the County of Hull,
Province of Quebec, and the whole of the city of Ottawa, in
the County of Carleton, Province of Ontario ; all of which are
more particularly described as follows: Commencing at a point
on the south shore of the Grand or Ottawa River where it is
intersected by the boundary between the Township of McNab
in the County of Renfrew and the Township of Fitzroy in the
County of Carleton; thence south-westerly along the said
boundary to the line between the north-east and south-west
halves of the Lots in Concession II, Township of Fitzroy;
thence south-easterly along the last-mentioned line to the line
between the south-west half of Lot 21 and the south-west half of
Lot 22, Concession II, Township of Fitzroy; thence south
westerly along the last-mentioned line and along the line
between Lots 21 and 22, Concession I, Township of Fitzroy, to
the boundary between the said Township of Fitzroy in the
County of Carleton and the Township of Pakenham in the
County of Lanark; thence along the last-mentioned boundary
to the line between Lots 21 and 22, Concession XII, Township
of Pakenham; thence south-westerly along the last-mentioned
line to the line between the north-east and south-west halves
of the Lots in Concession XII, Township of Pakenham ; thence
south-easterly along the last-mentioned line to the line between
the south half of Lot 16 and the south half of Lot 17, Con
cession XII, Township of Pakenham; thence south-westerly
along the last-mentioned line and along the line between Lots
16 and 17, Concession XI, to the line between the north-east
and south-west halves of the Lots in Concession XI, Township
of Pakenham; thence south-easterly along the last-mentioned
line to the line between the south-west half of Lot 13 and the
south-west half of Lot 14, Concession XI, Township of Paken
ham ; thence south-westerly along the last-mentioned line and
along the lines between Lots 13 and 14, Concessions X and IX,
to the line between the north-east and south-west halves of the
Lots in Concession IX, Township of Pakenham; thence south
easterly along the last-mentioned line to the line between the
south-west half of Lot 7 and the south-west half of Lot 8,
Concession IX, Township of Pakenham ; thence south-westerly
along the last-mentioned line and along the line between Lots
7 and 8, Concession VIII to the line between the north-east
and south-west halves of the Lots in Concession VIII, Township
of Pakenham; thence south-easterly along the last-mentioned
line to the boundary between the Townships of Pakenham and
Ramsay ; thence south-westerly along the last-mentioned bound
ary to the road between Concessions VII and VIII, Township
of Ramsay; thence south-easterly along the said road to the
road between Lots 20 and 21, Concession VIII, Township
Ramsay ; thence north-easterly along the said side road to
the line between the north-east and south-west halves of the
in Concession VIII, Township of Ramsay; thence south
easterly along the last-mentioned line to the boundary between
Townships of Ramsay and Beckwith; thence south
westerly along the last-mentioned boundary to the line between
Lots 16 and 17, Concession XII, Township of Beckwith; thence
south-easterly along the last-mentioned line and along the line
between Lots 16 and 17, Concession XI, Township of Beckwith,
to the north-westerly limit of the right-of-way of the Canadian
Pacific Railway; thence north-easterly along the last-mentioned
limit to the boundary between the Township of Beckwith in
the County of Lanark and the Township of Goulbourn in the
County of Carleton ; thence south-easterly along the last-
mentioned boundary to the boundary between the Townships
of Goulbourn and Marlborough; thence north-easterly along
the last-mentioned boundary to the boundary between the
Townships of Marlborough and North Gower; thence south
easterly along the last-mentioned boundary to the road between
Lots 35 and 36, Concession IV, Township of North Gower;
thence easterly along the road between Lots 35 and 36 in
Concessions IV, III, and II and continuing easterly along the
production of the said road to the easterly boundary of the
Township of North Gower, being the centre line of the Rideau
River; thence northerly following the centre line of the
Rideau River to the west boundary of the Township of
Osgoode; thence southerly along the last-mentioned boundary
to the road between Lots 35 and 36 in the Broken Front Con
cession, Township of Osgoode ; thence easterly along the road
between Lots 35 and 36 in the Broken Front and First Con
cessions and between Lots 34 and 35 in the Second Concession,
and between Lots 35 and 36 in Concessions III, IV, V, VI, VII,
VIII, IX, X, and XI, Township of Osgoode, and continuing
along the road between Lots 5 and 6 in Concessions I, II, III,
IV, V. VI, VII, and VIII in the Township of Russell to the
road between Concessions VIII and IX of the said Township
of Russell ; thence northerly along the last-mentioned road to
the boundary between the Townships of Russell and Cumber
land ; thence easterly along the last-mentioned boundary to
the road between Concessions III and IV, Township of
Cumberland; thence northerly along the last-mentioned road
to the line between Lots 1 and 2, Concession III, Township of
Cumberland; thence easterly along the last-mentioned line to
the west boundary of Lot 10 in the Second Concession from
the Ottawa River, sometimes called "The Old Survey", in the
Township of Cumberland; thence northerly along the said
west boundary of Lot 10 in the Second Concession from the
Ottawa River and along the west boundary of Lot 10 in the
First Concession from the Ottawa River to the southerly shore
of the Grand or Ottawa River; thence northerly across the
said Grand or Ottawa River to the point on the northerly shore
where it is intersected by the line between Lots 7 and 8,
Range I, Township of Buckingham, in the County of Papineau,
Province of Quebec ; thence northerly along the lines between
Lots 7 and 8, Ranges I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X,
XI, and XII. Township of Buckingham, to the boundary be
tween the Townships of Buckingham and Derry, County of
Papineau; thence westerly along the last-mentioned boundary
to the boundary between the Townships of Derry and Portland
East; thence northerly along the last-mentioned boundary to
the range line between Ranges III and IV of the said Township
of Portland East; thence westerly along the last-mentioned
range line to the boundary between the Townships of Portland
East and Portland West; thence northerly along the last-
mentioned boundary to the range line between Ranges IV and
V of the said Township of Portland West; thence westerly
along the last-mentioned range line to the easterly boundary
Lot 7, Range V, Township of Portland West; thence
along the last-mentioned boundary to the range line
Ranges V and VI, Township of Portland West; thence
along the last-mentioned range line to the easterly
of Lot 7, Range VI, Township of Portland West;
northerly along the last-mentioned boundary to the
range line between Ranges VI and VII, Township of Portland
West; thence westerly along the last-mentioned range line to
the easterly boundary of Lot 7, Range VII, Township of
Portland West; thence northerly along the last-mentioned
boundary to the range line between Ranges VII and VIII,
Township of Portland West; thence westerly along the last-
mentioned range line to the easterly boundary of Lot 7, Range
VIII, Township of Portland West; thence northerly along the
last-mentioned boundary to the range line between Ranges
VIII and IX, Township of Portland West; thence westerly
along the last-mentioned range line to the boundary between
the Townships of Portland West and Denholm; thence
southerly along the last-mentioned boundary to the boundary
between the Townships of Denholm and Wakefield; thence
westerly along the last-mentioned boundary to the line between
Lots 25 and 26, Range XI, of the said Township of Wakefield ;
thence southerly along the lines between Lots 25 and 26,
Ranges XI, X, IX, VIII, VII, VI, and V, Township of Wake-
field, to the range line between Ranges IV and V, Township
of Wakefield; thence westerly along the last-mentioned range
line to the line between Lots 4 and 5, Range V, Township of
Wakefield; thence northerly along the lines between Lots 4
and 5, Ranges V, VI, and VII, Township of Wakefield, to the
range line between Ranges VII and VIII, Township of Wake-
field; thence westerly along the last-mentioned range line to
the boundary between the Townships of Wakefield and
Masham; thence northerly along the last-mentioned boundary
to the range line between Ranges VII and VIII, of the said
Township of Masham ; thence westerly along the last-mentioned
range line to the boundary between the Townships of Masham
and Aldfield ; thence northerly along the last-mentioned bound
ary to the range line between Ranges II and III, of the said
Township of Aldfield ; thence westerly along the last-mentioned
range line to the easterly boundary of the east range of the
said Township of Aldfield ; thence along the said easterly bound
ary of the east range of the Township of Aldfield to the line
between Lots 14 and 15 of the said east range of the Township
of Aldfield; thence westerly along the lines between Lots 14
and 15, east range and west range, Township of Aldfield to the
westerly boundary of the west range of the said Township of
Aldfield; thence southerly along the said westerly boundary to
the range line between Ranges I and II of the said Township
of Aldfield; thence westerly along the last-mentioned range
line to the boundary between the Townships of Aldfield and
Thome, County of Pontiac; thence southerly along the last-
mentioned boundary and continuing along the boundary be
tween the Townships of Onslow and Bristol, County of Pontiac,
to the Grand or Ottawa River; thence southerly across the
Grand or Ottawa River to the point of commencement ; an area
of one thousand eight hundred square miles, more or less.
1958, c. 37, Sch.
