
# CHAPTER N-5
Act for the establishment of a National
Design Council

## SHORT TITLE
\ t "This Act may be cited as the National
Design Council Act. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Council" means the National Design Coun-
cil;
"Minister" means the Minister of Industry,
Trade and Commerce. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 2;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 101.

## NATIONAL DESIGN COUNCIL

**3.** There shall be, under the direction of
the Minister, a National Design Council
consisting of seventeen members, including
  * (_a_) five members who shall be chosen from
the fields of industry, commerce, and
organized labour,
  * (_b_) two members who shall be chosen from
the field of the distribution of goods,
  * (_c_) four members who shall be chosen from
any of the fields of architecture, design and
engineering,
  * (_d_) four members who are officers or
employees of Her Majesty employed in
departments or agencies of the Government
of Canada that have a specialized interest
in industrial design, and
  * (_e_) two members of the general public,
to be appointed by the Governor in Council
as provided in section 4. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Each of the members of the Council
shall be appointed to hold office for a term
of three years, except that of the seventeen
first appointed eight shall be appointed for a
term not exceeding two years.
(2) One member shall be appointed to be
Chairman of the Council for such term, not
exceeding three years, as is fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(3) A retiring Chairman or other member is
eligible for re-appointment to the Council in
the same or another capacity.
(4) A person in order to be eligible to be
appointed as a member of the Council
described in paragraph 3(a),(6),(c) or (d) shall
have knowledge of the field he is to represent ,
or of technical aspects of design. 1960-61, c.
24, s. 4.

**5.** Members of the Council shall serve
without remuneration but are entitled to be
paid reasonable travelling and living expenses
while absent from their ordinary place of
residence in the course of their duties. 1960-
61, c. 24,s.5.

**6.** A majority of the members constitutes a
quorum of the Council, and a vacancy in the
membership of the Council does not impair
the right of the remaining members to act.
1960-61, c. 24,s.6.

**7.** (1) The Council shall elect one of its
members to be Vice-Chairman for a term not
exceeding three years.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the Chairman, or if the office of Chairman
is vacant, the Vice-Chairman shall act as
Chairman. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 7.

**8.** The Council shall meet at least three
times a year on such days as are fixed by the
Council. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 8.

**9.** The Council may make rules for regu
lating its proceedings and the performance of
its functions and may provide therein for the
delegation of any of its duties to any special
or standing committees of its members. 1960-
c. 24, s. 9.

**10.** The objects of the Council are to
promote and expedite improvement of design
in the products of Canadian industry, and,
without limiting the generality of the forego
ing, the Council may, in furtherance of its
objects,
  * (_a_) plan and implement programs to create
an awareness by industry and the general
public of the need for good design ;
(6) develop methods of achieving improved
design ;
  * (_c_) assist industry in developing and apply
ing good design techniques ;
  * (_d_) organize and assist committees and
other groups in the implementation on a
national, regional or industry basis of
programs to foster good design ;
  * (_e_) recommend to the Minister the awarding
through appropriate organizations and oth
erwise of grants or scholarships
  * (_i_) to individuals in Canada for study or
research in design in Canada or elsewhere,
and
  * (_ii_) to institutions in Canada to encourage
study or research in design in Canada ;
0) grant or issue certificates, citations or
awards of merit in respect of Canadian
products of outstanding design ; and
  * (_g_) arrange for and sponsor the exhibition
of displays of good design in Canada and
abroad. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Minister may refer to the
Council for its consideration and advice such
matters relating to the promotion and expe
dition of the improvement of design in
Canada or otherwise relating to the operation
of this Act as he thinks fit.
(2) The Council shall investigate and report
on all matters referred to it pursuant to
(1) and shall make such recommen
dations to the Minister in respect thereof as
it deems appropriate. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 11.

## GENERAL

**12.** (1) In order to carry out its objects the
Council shall utilize the services of such
officers and employees employed in the
Department of Industry, Trade and Com
merce as the Minister may designate for the
purpose.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the Minister
may provide the Council with such profes
sional or technical assistance for temporary
periods or for specific work as the Council
may request, but no such assistance shall be
provided otherwise than from the public
service of Canada except with the approval
of the Treasury Board. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 12;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 101.

**13.** The Council is not an agent of Her
Majesty and the members of the Council as
such are not part of the public service of
Canada. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 13.

**14.** Expenditures for the purposes of this
Act shall be paid out of moneys appropriated
by Parliament to defray the charges and
expenses of the public service of Canada
within the Department of Industry, Trade
and Commerce. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 14; 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 101.

**15.** The Chairman of the Council shall,
within three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, submit to the Minister a
report of the operations of the Council for
that fiscal year. 1960-61, c. 24, s. 15.
