
# CHAPTER N-6
An Act to establish a National Energy Board

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the National
Energy Board Act. 1959, c. 46, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the National Energy Board ;
"certificate" means a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued under Part
III;
"company" means a person having authority
under a Special Act to construct or operate
pipelines ;
"export" means
  * (_a_) with reference to power, to send from
Canada by a line of wire or other conductor,
and
(6) with reference to hydrocarbons, to send
from Canada by any means;
"gas" means any natural gas whether or not
it has been subjected to processing, and
includes any fluid hydrocarbons other than
oil;
"import" means
  * (_a_) with reference to gas, to bring gas into
Canada through pipelines, and
(6) with reference to oil, to bring oil into
Canada through pipelines, by railway tank
car, by tank truck or by tanker ;
"international power line" means facilities
constructed or operated for the purpose of
transmitting power from any place in
Canada to any place outside Canada ;
"licence" means a licence issued under Part
VI;
"member" means a member of the Board;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as is designated
by the Governor in Council to act as the
Minister for the purposes of this Act ;
"oil" means
  * (_a_) any crude oil or other hydrocarbons,
regardless of gravity, that are or may be
recovered in liquid form from an under
ground natural reservoir by ordinary pro
duction methods,
(6) any liquid hydrocarbons resulting from
the processing or refining of any crude oil
or other hydrocarbons described in para
graph (a), and
  * (_c_) any natural gasoline resulting from the
processing or refining of gas ;
"pipeline" means a line for the transmission
of hydrocarbons connecting a province with
any other or others of the provinces, or
extending beyond the limits of a province,
and includes all branches, extensions, tanks,
reservoirs, pumps, racks, compressors, load
ing facilities, interstation systems of com
munication by telephone, telegraph or
radio, and real and personal property and
works connected therewith ;
"power" means electrical power that is
produced in Canada ;
"registrar of deeds" includes the registrar of
land titles or other officer with whom title
to land is registered ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Board ;
"Special Act" means an Act of the Parliament
of Canada that
  * (_a_) authorizes a person named in the Act to
construct or operate a pipeline, or
(6) is enacted with special reference to a
pipeline that a person is by such an Act
authorized to construct or operate ;
"toll" includes any toll, rate, charge or
allowance charged or made for the shipment,
transportation, transmission, care, handling
or delivery of hydrocarbons, or for storage
or demurrage or the like. 1959, c. 46, s. 2;
1960-61, c. 52, s. 1; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 41;
SOR/69-262.

## PARTI

## NATIONAL ENERGY BOARD
Board Established

**3.** (1) There shall be a Board, to be called
the National Energy Board, consisting of five
members to be appointed by the Governor in
Council.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), each
member of the Board shall be appointed to
hold office during good behaviour for a period
of seven years, but may be removed at any
time by the Governor in Council upon address
of the Senate and House of Commons.
(3) The first five members appointed after
the 1st day of November 1959 may be
appointed to hold office during good behav
iour for a term less than seven years.
(4) A member appointed pursuant to sub
section (2) or (3) is eligible to be re-appointed
to hold office during good behaviour for any
term of seven years or less and every member
ceases to hold office upon attaining the age
of seventy years.
(5) A person is not eligible to be appointed
or to continue as a member of the Board if
he is not a Canadian citizen or if as owner,
shareholder, director, officer, partner or oth
erwise, he is engaged in the business of
producing, selling, buying, transmitting,
exporting, importing or otherwise dealing in
hydrocarbons or power or if he holds any
bond, debenture or other security of a
company.
(6) If any member of the Board by reason
of absence or other incapacity is unable at
any time to perform the duties of his office,
the Governor in Council may appoint a
temporary substitute member upon such terms
and conditions as the Governor in Council
may prescribe.
(7) Each member shall during his term of
office reside in the city of Ottawa or within
twenty-five miles thereof or within such other
distance thereof as the Governor in Council
determines.
(8) Members shall devote the whole of their
time to the performance of their duties under
this Act, and shall not accept or hold any
office or employment inconsistent with their
duties and functions under this Act. 1959, c.
46,8.3; 1960-61, c. 52, s. 2.
4, (j) Th e members shall be paid such
salaries as are fixed by the Governor in
Council, but the salary of the Chairman shall
be not less than twenty-four thousand, eight
hundred and forty dollars per annum ; the
salary of the Vice-Chairman shall be not less
than twenty-two thousand, six hundred and
eighty dollars per annum ; and the salary of
each of the other members shall be not less
than twenty thousand, five hundred and
twenty dollars per annum.
(2) Each member is entitled to be paid
reasonable travelling and other expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his
duties while away from his ordinary place of
residence. 1959, c. 46, s. 4; 1963, c. 41, s. 5;
1966-67, c. 84, s. 3.
Executive Officers

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council shall desig
nate one of the members to be Chairman of
the Board and one of the members to be Vice-
Chairman of the Board.
(2) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Board, and has supervision over
and direction of the work and the staff of the
Board.
(3) If the Chairman is absent or is unable
to act or if the office is vacant, the Vice-
Chairman has and may exercise all the powers
and functions of the Chairman.
(4) The Board may authorize one or more
of its members to act as Chairman for the
time being in the event that the Chairman
and Vice-Chairman are absent or unable to
act or if the offices are vacant. 1959, c. 46,

**5.**
(3) A vacancy in the membership of the
Board does not impair the right of the
remainder to act.
(4) The Board may sit at such times and
places as it considers necessary or desirable
for the proper conduct of its business. 1959, c.
46, s. 6.
Rules

**1.** The Board may make rules respecting
  * (_a_) the sittings of the Board ;
(6) the procedure for making applications,
representations and complaints to the Board
and the conduct of hearings before the
Board, and generally the manner of
conducting any business before the Board ;
  * (_c_) the apportionment of the work of the
Board among its members, and the assign
ment of members to sit at hearings, and to
preside thereat ; and
  * (_d_) generally, the carrying on of the work
of the Board, the management of its
internal affairs, and the duties of its officers
and employees. 1959, c. 46, s. 7.
Staff

**8.** (1) There shall be a Secretary of the
Board who shall be appointed by the Governor
in Council to hold office during pleasure, and
the other officers and employees necessary
for the proper conduct of the business of the
Board shall be appointed under the Public
Service Employment Act.
(2) The Secretary shall be paid such salary
as the Governor in Council may fix, and he
shall reside in the city of Ottawa or within
twenty-five miles thereof or within such other
distance thereof as the Governor in Council
determines.
(3) for the purposes of the Public Service
Superannuation Act, the members and Secre
tary of the Board and the officers and
employees appointed as provided in subsec
tion (1) shall be deemed to be persons
employed in the Public Service. 1959, c. 46,

**9.** The Governor in Council may appoint
and fix the remuneration of experts or persons
having technical or special knowledge to assist
the Board in any matter in an advisory
capacity. 1959, c. 46, s. 9.
Powers of Board
\Q, The Board is a court of record.
(2) The Board shall have an official seal,
which shall be judicially noticed.
(3) The Board has, with respect to the
attendance, swearing and examination of
witnesses, the production and inspection of
documents, the enforcement of its orders, the
entry upon and inspection of property and
other matters necessary or proper for the due
exercise of its jurisdiction, all such powers,
rights and privileges as are vested in a superior
court of record. 1959, c. 46, s. 10.

**11.** The Board has full and exclusive
jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and deter
mine any matter
  * (_a_) where it appears to the Board that any
person has failed to do any act, matter or
thing required to be done by this Act or by
any regulation, certificate, licence or permit ,
or any order or direction made by the
Board, or that any person has done or is
doing any act, matter or thing contrary to
or in violation of this Act, or any such
regulation, certificate, licence, permit, order
or direction, or
(6) where it appears to the Board that the
circumstances may require the Board, in
the public interest, to make any order or
give any direction, leave, sanction or
approval that by law it is authorized to
make or give, or with respect to any matter,
act or thing that by this Act or any such
regulation, certificate, licence, permit, order
or direction is prohibited, sanctioned or
required to be done. 1959, c. 46, s. 11.

**12.** The Board may order and require any
person to do, forthwith, or within or at any
specified time and in any manner prescribed
by the Board so far as it is not inconsistent
with this Act, any act, matter or thing that
such person is or may be required to do under
this Act, or any regulation, certificate, licence
or permit, or any order or direction made or
given under this Act and may forbid the
doing or continuing of any act, matter or
thing that is contrary to this Act or any such
regulation, certificate, licence, permit, order
or direction and, for the purposes of this Act,
has full jurisdiction to hear and determine all
matters, whether of law or of fact. 1959, c. 46,
s. 12.

**13.** The Board may delegate to one or
more of its members, either jointly or severally,
all or any of the powers, functions and duties
of the Board under this Act, except those
under subsection 36(3), section 37, 38, 39, 42,
44, 46, 47, 49, 82, 84 or 88, or under Part IV.
1959, c. 46, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Board or the Chairman may
authorize any one of the members to report
to the Board upon any question or matter
arising in connection with the business of the
Board, and the person so authorized has all
the powers of the Board for the purpose of
taking evidence or acquiring the necessary
information for the purpose of such report,
and upon such a report being made to the
Board, it may be adopted as the order of the
Board or otherwise dealt with as the Board
considers advisable.
(2) The Board may of its own motion
inquire into, hear and determine any matter
or thing that under this Act it may inquire
into, hear and determine. 1959, c. 46, s. 14.
Orders and Decisions

**15.** (1) Any decision or order made by the
Board may, for the purpose of enforcement
thereof, be made a rule, order or decree of the
Exchequer Court of Canada or of any superior
court of any province of Canada and shall be
enforced in like manner as any rule, order or
decree of such court.
(2) To make a decision or order of the
Board a rule, order or decree of the Exchequer
Court of Canada or a superior court, the usual
practice and procedure of the court in such
matters may be followed, or in lieu thereof
the Secretary may file with the Registrar of
the court a certified copy of the decision or
order under the seal of the Board and
thereupon the decision or order becomes a
rule, order or decree of the court. 1959, c. 46,
s. 15.

**16.** Where under this Act the Board may
i i
make or issue any order or direction or
prescribe any terms or conditions or do any
other thing in relation to any person, the
Board may do so, either generally or in any
particular case or class of cases. 1959, c. 46,
s. 16.

**17.** (i) Subject to subsection (2), the Board
may review, rescind, change, alter or vary any
order or decision made by it, or may re-hear
any application before deciding it.
(2) The Board may change, alter or vary a
certificate or licence issued by it but no such
change, alteration or variation is effective
until approved by the Governor in Council.
(3) No assignment or transfer of a certificate
or licence issued by the Board is effective
until approved by the Board and the Governor
in Council, and the Board may, in approving
any such assignment or transfer, impose, in
addition to or in lieu of any terms and
conditions to which the certificate or licence
was previously subject, such further or other
terms and conditions to which the certificate
or licence shall be subject as the Board
considers necessary or desirable in order to
give effect to the purposes and provisions of
this Act. 1960-61, c. 52, s. 3.

**18.** (1) An appeal lies from a decision or
of the Board to the Supreme Court of
upon a question of law, or a question
of jurisdiction, upon leave therefor being
obtained from a judge of the Supreme Court
upon application made within one month
after the making of the decision or order
sought to be appealed from or within such
further time as the judge under special
circumstances allows.
(2) No appeal lies after leave therefor has
been obtained under subsection (1) unless it is
entered in the Supreme Court within sixty
days from the making of the order granting
leave to appeal. 1959, c. 46, s. 18.

**19.** (1) Except as provided in this Act,
every decision or order of the Board is final
and conclusive.
(2) The Exchequer Court of Canada has
exclusive original jurisdiction to hear and
determine every application for a writ of
certiorari, prohibition or mandamus or for an
injunction in relation to any decision or order
of the Board or any proceedings before the
Board.
(3) A decision or order of the Board is not
subject to review or to be restrained, removed
or set aside by certiorari, prohibition, man
damus or injunction or any other process or
proceeding in the Exchequer Court on the
ground
  * (_a_) that a question of law or fact was
erroneously decided by the Board ; or
(6) that the Board had no jurisdiction to
entertain the proceedings in which the
decision or order was made or to make the
decision or order.
(4) Any minute or other record of the Board
or any document issued by the Board, in the
form of a decision or order, shall for the
purposes of this section be deemed to be a
decision or order of the Board. 1959, c. 46,
s. 19.

**20.** Hearings before the Board with regard
Proof of Documents
2 1. In any action or other proceedings
  * (_a_) any document purporting to be certified
by the Secretary, or by any other person
authorized by the Board to certify docu
ments for the purposes of this section, and
sealed with the seal of the Board to be a
true copy of any minute, decision, licence,
certificate, permit, order, instruction, book
of reference, book entry, plan, drawing or
other document or any part thereof, is,
without proof of the signature of the
Secretary or other person, evidence of the
original document of which it purports to
be a copy, and that the same was made,
given, issued or deposited at the time stated
in the certification, if a time is stated
therein, and is signed, certified, attested or
executed by the persons by whom and in
the manner in which the same purports to
be signed, certified, attested or executed as
shown or appearing from such certified
copy; and
(6) a document purporting to be certified
by the Secretary, or by any other person
authorized by the Board to certify docu
ments for the purposes of this section, and
sealed with the seal of the Board stating
that a valid and subsisting document of
authorization under this Act has or has not
been issued by the Board to a person or
persons named in the certified document, is
evidence of the facts therein stated, without
proof of the signature or of the official
character of the person appearing to have
signed the same and without further proof
thereof. 1959, c. 46, s. 21.

## PART II

## ADVISORY FUNCTIONS

**22.** (1) The Board shall study and keep
manufacture, processing, transmission, trans
portation, distribution, sale, purchase,
exchange and disposal of energy and sources
of energy within and outside Canada, shall
report thereon from time to time to the
Minister and shall recommend to the Minister
such measures within the jurisdiction of the
Parliament of Canada as it considers necessary
or advisable in the public interest for the
control, supervision, conservation, use, mar
keting and development of energy and sources
of energy.
(2) The Board shall, at the request of the
Minister, prepare studies and reports on any
matter relating to energy or sources of energy,
and shall recommend to the Minister the
making of such arrangements as it considers
desirable for cooperation with governmental
or other agencies in or outside Canada in
respect of matters relating to energy and
sources of energy.
(3) In carrying out its duties and functions
under this section, the Board shall, wherever
appropriate, utilize agencies of the Govern
ment of Canada to obtain technical, economic
and statistical information and advice. 1959,
c. 46, s. 22.

**23.** Studies and reports of the Board made
under this Part may be made public with the
approval of the Minister. 1959, c. 46, s. 23.

**24.** For the purposes of this Part, the
Board has all the powers of commissioners
under Part I of the Inquiries Act. 1959, c. 46,
s.24.

## PART III

## CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC

## CONVENIENCE AND

## NECESSITY
Construction and Operation of Pipelines

**25.** (1) No person, other than a company,
shall construct or operate a pipeline.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit or prevent any person from
operating or improving a pipeline constructed
before the 1st day of October 1953, but every
pipeline shall be operated in accordance
this Act.
(3) For the purposes of this Act,
  * (_a_) a liquidator, receiver or manager of the
property of a company, appointed by a
court of competent jurisdiction to carry on
the business of the company,
(6) a trustee for the holders of bonds,
debentures, debenture stock or other evi
dence of indebtedness of the company,
issued under a trust deed or other instrument
and secured on or against the property of
the company, if the trustee is authorized by
the trust deed or other instrument to carry
on the business of the company, and
  * (_c_) a person, other than a company, operat
ing a pipeline constructed before the 1st
day of October 1953,
shall be deemed to be a person having
authority under a Special Act to construct or
operate pipelines. 1959, c. 46, s. 25.

**26.** (1) No company shall operate a pipe
line unless
  * (_a_) there is a certificate in force with respect
to that pipeline, and
(6) leave has been given under this Part to
the company to open the pipeline.
(2) No company shall operate a pipeline
otherwise than in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the certificate issued with
respect thereto. 1959, c. 46, s. 26.
Location of Pipelines

**27.** Except as otherwise provided in this
Act, a company shall not begin the construc
tion of a section or part of a pipeline until
  * (_a_) the Board has by the issue of a certificate
granted the company leave to construct the
line ;
(6) the plan, profile and book of reference
of the section or part of the proposed line
have been approved by the Board ; and
  * (_c_) copies of the plan, profile and book of
reference so approved, duly certified as
such by the Secretary, have been deposited
in the offices of the registrars of deeds for
the districts or counties through which such
section or part of the pipeline is to pass.
1959, c. 46, s. 27.

**28.** (1) Upon an application for a cert if i-
&amp;gt; tne company shall file with the Board a
map showing the general location of the
proposed line, the termini, and all cities,
towns, villages, railways and navigable waters
through, under or across which the line is to
pass, together with such further or other plans,
specifications and information as the Board
considers necessary.
(2) The company shall file a copy of the
application and of the map with the attorney
general of each province to which the
application relates in whole or in part, and
the Board shall require notice of the applica
tion to be given by publication in newspapers
or otherwise. 1959, c. 46, s. 28; 1960-61, c. 52,
s. 5.
Plan, Profile and Book of Reference

**29.** (1) When the Board has issued a
certificate, the company shall prepare and
submit to the Board a plan, profile and book
of reference.
(2) The plan and profile shall be drawn
with such detail as the Board may require.
(3) The book of reference shall describe the
portion of land proposed to be taken in each
parcel of land to be traversed, giving the
numbers of the parcels, and the area, length
and width of the portion of each parcel to be
taken, and the names of the owners and
occupiers so far as they can be ascertained.
(4) The plan, profile and book of reference
shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the
Board, and the Board may require the
company to furnish any further or other
information that the Board considers neces
sary. 1959, c. 46, s. 29.

**30.** The Board shall not, by the issue of a
certificate or by approving a plan, profile and
book of reference, be deemed to have relieved
the company from otherwise complying with
this Act. 1959, c. 46, s. 30.
3 1 % At the time the Board approves a plan,
profile and book of reference, or gives leave
under this Act to take lands without the
the Board may fix a period within which a
shall acquire the lands or take the
necessary steps for such purpose. 1959, c. 46,

**31.**
Errors

**32.** (1) Where any omission, mis-statement
or error is made in the registered plan, profile
or book of reference, a company may apply
to the Board for a permit to correct the
omission, mis-statement or error.
(2) The Board may in its discretion issue a
permit setting forth the nature of the omission,
mis-statement or error and the correction
allowed.
(3) Upon the deposit of copies of the permit,
certified as such by the Secretary, with the
registrars of deeds of the districts or counties,
respectively, in which such lands are situated,
the plan, profile or book of reference shall be
taken to be corrected in accordance therewith,
and the company may, thereupon, subject to
this Act, construct its line in accordance with
the correction. 1959, c. 46, s. 32.

**33.** A pipeline may be made, carried or
placed across, upon or under the lands of a
person on the located line, although, through
error or any other cause, the name of that
person has not been entered in the book of
reference, or although some other person is
erroneously mentioned as the owner of or
entitled to convey or as interested in the
lands. 1959, c. 46, s. 33.
Duties of Registrars of Deeds

**34.** (1) Every registrar of deeds shall
receive and preserve in his office all plans,
profiles, books of reference, certified copies
thereof and other documents, required by this
Act to be deposited with him, and shall
endorse thereon the day, hour and minute
when they were so deposited.
(2) All persons may resort to such plans,
profiles, books of reference, copies and
documents so deposited, and may make
extracts therefrom and copies thereof, as
occasion requires.
(3) A registrar of deeds shall, at the request
of any person, certify copies of any plan,
profile, book of reference, certified copy
thereof or other document, deposited in his
office under this Act, or of such portions
thereof as may be required, on being paid
therefor at the rate of twenty cents for each
hundred words copied, and such additional
sum for any copy of plan or profile furnished
by him as is reasonable and customary in like
cases, together with one dollar for each
certification given by him.
(4) The certification of the registrar of
deeds shall set forth that the plan, profile or
document, a copy of which, or any portion of
which, is certified by him, is deposited in his
office, and shall state the time when it was so
deposited, and that he has carefully compared
the copy certified with the document on file,
and that it is a true copy of the original.
(5) The certified copy is evidence of the
original so deposited and is evidence that the
original was so deposited at the time stated
and certified, and that it was signed, certified,
attested or otherwise executed by the persons
by whom and in the manner in which the
original purports to be signed, certified,
attested or executed, as shown or appearing
by the certified copy; and in the case of a
plan, that the plan is prepared according to a
scale and in a manner and form sanctioned
by the Board. 1959, c. 46, s. 34.
Further Plans

**35.** j n addition to the plans, profiles and
books of reference elsewhere provided for in
this Act, a company shall, with all reasonable
expedition, prepare and deposit with the
Board such further or other material, including
plans, specifications and drawings with respect
to any portion of its pipeline or works, as the
Board may from time to time order or require.
1960-61, c. 52, s. 6.
Deviations

**36.** (1) When a deviation, change or alter
ation is required by a company to be made in
its pipeline, or any portion thereof, as already
constructed, or as merely located and
approved, a plan, profile and book of reference
of the portion of such line proposed to be
showing the deviation, change or
proposed to be made, shall be
for the approval of the Board.
(2) When the plan, profile and book of
reference of the portion of the line so proposed
to be changed have been approved by the
Board, and copies thereof have been deposited
as provided in this Act with respect to the
original plan, profile and book of reference,
the company may make such deviation,
change or alteration, and all the provisions of
this Act are applicable to the portion of the
pipeline, at any time so changed or proposed
to be changed, in the same manner as they
are applicable to the original line.
(3) The Board may exempt a company
from all or any of the provisions of this
section where the deviation, change or
alteration was made or is to be made for the
purpose of benefiting a pipeline, or for any
other purpose of public advantage, as may
seem to the Board expedient, but such
deviation, change or alteration shall not
exceed such distance as the Board requires
from the centre line of the pipeline, located
or constructed in accordance with the plans,
profiles and books of reference approved by
the Board under this Act. 1959, c. 46, s. 36.
Diversion or Relocation

**37.** The Board may, upon such terms and
conditions as it considers proper, direct a
company to divert or relocate its pipeline if
the Board is of the opinion that the diversion
or relocation is necessary to facilitate the
construction, reconstruction or relocation of a
highway or a railway or any other work
affecting a public interest. 1959, c. 46, s. 37.
Leave to Open Pipelines
3g. (j) NO pipeline and no section thereof
shall be opened for the transmission of
hydrocarbons by a company until leave
therefor has been obtained from the Board.
(2) Leave may be granted by the Board
Public Safety

**39.** (1) To promote safety of operation of
a pipeline, the Board may order the company
to repair, reconstruct or alter part of the
pipeline and may direct that, until the work
has been done, such part of the pipeline shall
not be used.
(2) The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, make regulations
providing for the protection of property and
the safety of the public and of the company s
employees in the operation of a pipeline.
(3) Every person who violates a regulation
made under subsection (2) is guilty of an
offence punishable on summary conviction.
1959, c. 46, s. 39.
Construction and Operation of International
Power Lines

**40.** Except as otherwise provided in this
Act, no person shall begin the construction of
any international power line unless the Board
has by the issue of a certificate authorized
the construction thereof. 1959, c. 46, s. 40.

**41.** A person applying for a certificate for
an international power line shall furnish to
the Board such plans, documents, information
and other materials as are prescribed by the
Board. 1959, c. 46, s. 41.

**42.** The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, make regulations
respecting the location of international power
lines, the registration of plans, profiles, books
of reference or other documents and the
correction of errors therein and the duties of
registrars of deeds with respect thereto,
deviations, changes or alterations in interna
tional power lines and the diversion of
international power lines. 1959, c. 46, s. 42.
Operation of International Power Lines

**43.** (1) No person shall operate an interna
tional power line unless there is a certificate
in force with respect to that international
power line.
(2) No person shall operate an international
power line otherwise than in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the certificate
issued with respect thereto. 1959, c. 46, s. 43.
Issue of Certificates for Pipelines and
International Power Lines

**44.** The Board may , subject to the approval
of the Governor in Council, issue a certificate
in respect of a pipeline or an international
power line if the Board is satisfied that the
line is and will be required by the present and
future public convenience and necessity, and,
in considering an application for a certificate,
the Board shall take into account all such
matters as to it appear to be relevant, and
without limiting the generality of the forego
ing, the Board may have regard to the
following :
  * (_a_) the availability of oil or gas to the
pipeline, or power to the international
power line, as the case may be;
(6) the existence of markets, actual or
potential ;
  * (_c_) the economic feasibility of the pipeline
or international power line ;
  * (_d_) the financial responsibility and finan
cial structure of the applicant, the methods
of financing the line and the extent to
which Canadians will have an opportunity
of participating in the financing, engineer
ing and construction of the line ; and
  * (_e_) any public interest that in the Board s
opinion may be affected by the granting or
the refusing of the application. 1959, c. 46,
s. 44.

**45.** Upon an application for a certificate
the Board shall consider the objections of any
interested person, and the decision of the
Board as to whether a person is or is not an
interested person for the purpose of this
section is conclusive. 1959, c. 46, s. 45.

**46.** The Board may issue a certificate
subject to such terms and conditions as it
considers necessary or desirable in order to
give effect to the purposes and provisions of
this Act, 1960-61, c. 52, s. 7.
Revocation and Suspension

**47.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Board
may by order, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, revoke or suspend a
certificate if, in the opinion of the Board, the
person to whom it was issued has violated or
failed to comply with any term or condition
thereof.
(2) No order shall be made under this
section unless notice has been given to the
holder of the certificate who is alleged to
have violated or failed to comply with any
term or condition thereof and an opportunity
has been afforded to him of being heard. 1959,
c. 46, s. 47.
Conditions to Certificate

**48.** Every certificate is subject to the
condition that the person to whom it is issued
will comply with the provisions of this Act
and the regulations as in force at the date of
the issue thereof and as subsequently enacted,
made or amended, and will comply with every
order made under the authority of this Act.
1959, c. 46, s. 48.
Exemptions

**49.** (1) The Board may make orders
  * (_a_) exempting
  * (_i_) pipelines or branches or extensions to
pipelines, not exceeding in any case
twenty-five miles in length, and
  * (_ii_) such tanks, reservoirs, pumps, racks,
compressors, loading facilities, intersta-
tion systems of communication by tele
phone, telegraph or radio, and real and
personal property and works connected
therewith, as the Board considers proper,
from any or all of the provisions of sections
25 to 29; and
(6) exempting international power lines or
parts thereof, not exceeding in any case a
maximum transfer capacity of five thousand
kilowatts, from any or all of the provisions
of sections 40, 41 and 43.
(2) In any order made under this section
the Board may impose such terms and
conditions as it considers proper. 1959, c. 46,
s. 49; 1960-61, c. 52, s. 8.

## PART IV

## TRAFFIC, TOLLS AND TARIFFS
Powers of Board

**50.** The Board may make orders with
respect to all matters relating to traffic, tolls
or tariffs. 1959, c. 46, s. 50.
Filing of Tariff

**51.** A company shall not charge any tolls
except tolls specified in a tariff that has been
filed with the Board and is in effect. 1959, c.
46, s. 51.
Just and Reasonable Tolls

**52.** All tolls shall be just and reasonable,
and shall always, under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions with respect to
all traffic of the same description carried over
the same route, be charged equally to all
persons at the same rate. 1959, c. 46, s. 52.
Disallowance of Tariff

**53.** The Board may disallow any tariff or
any portion thereof that it considers to be
contrary to any of the provisions of this Act
or to any order of the Board, and may require
a company, within a prescribed time, to
substitute a tariff satisfactory to the Board in
lieu thereof, or may prescribe other tariffs in
lieu of the tariff or portion thereof so
disallowed. 1959, c. 46, s. 53.

**54.** The Board may suspend any tariff or
portion thereof before or after the tariff
into effect. 1959, c. 46, s. 54.
Discrimination

**55.** A company shall not make any unjust
discrimination in tolls, service or facilities
against any person or locality. 1959, c. 46,
s. 55.

**55.** Where it is shown that a company
makes any discrimination in tolls, service or
facilities against any person or locality, the
burden of proving that the discrimination is
not unjust lies upon the company. 1959, c. 46,
s. 56.

**57.** (j) A. company or shipper or an officer,
employee or agent of the company or shipper
who
  * (_a_) offers, grants, gives, solicits, accepts or
receives a rebate, concession or discrimina
tion, or
  * (_b_) knowingly is party or privy to a false
billing, false classification, false report or
other device,
whereby a person obtains transmission of
hydrocarbons by a company at a less rate
than that named in the tariffs then in force,
is guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction.
(2) No prosecution shall be had or instituted
for an offence under this section without leave
of the Board. 1959, c. 46, s. 57.
Contracts Limiting Liabilities
gg. (i) Except as provided in this section,
no contract, condition or notice made or given
by a company impairing, restricting or
limiting its liability in respect of the trans
mission of hydrocarbons relieves the company
from its liability, unless such class of contract,
condition or notice is included as a term or
condition of its tariffs as filed or has been
(2) The Board may determine the extent to
which the liability of a company may be
impaired, restricted or limited as provided in
this section.
(3) The Board may prescribe the terms and
conditions under which hydrocarbons may be
transmitted by a company. 1959, c. 46, s. 58.
Transmission of Oil

**59.** (1) Subject to such exceptions, condi
tions or regulations as the Board may prescribe
or approve, a company operating a pipeline
for the transmission of oil shall, according to
its powers, without delay and with due care
and diligence, receive, transport and deliver
all oil offered for transmission by means of
its pipeline.
(2) The Board may, if it considers it
necessary or desirable to do so in the public
interest, require a company operating a
pipeline for the transmission of oil to provide
adequate and suitable facilities for the
receiving, transmission and delivering of all
oil offered for transmission by means of its
pipeline and adequate and suitable facilities
for the storage of oil and the junction of its
line with other facilities for the transmission
of oil, if the Board finds that no undue
burden will be placed upon the company
thereby.
(3) For the purposes of this section, "oil"
includes any liquefied gas that is or may be
transported through a pipeline for the
transmission of oil. 1959, c. 46, s. 59; 1960-61,
c. 52, s. 9.
Transmission of Gas

**60.** Where the Board finds such action
necessary or desirable in the public interest,
it may direct a company operating a pipeline
for the transmission of gas to extend or
improve its transmission facilities to provide
facilities for the junction of its pipeline with
any facilities of, and sell gas to, any person
or municipality engaged or legally authorized
to engage in the local distribution of gas to
thereby, but the Board has no power
compel a company to sell gas to additional
if to do so would impair its ability
to render adequate service to its existing
customers. 1959, c. 46, s. 60.

**61.** Where the gas transmitted by a
company through its pipeline is the property
of the company, the differential between the
cost to the company of the gas at the point
where it enters its pipeline and the amount
for which the gas is sold by the company
shall, for the purposes of this Part, be deemed
to be a toll charged by the company to the
purchaser for the transmission thereof. 1960-
61, c. 52,s. 10.

## PARTY

## POWERS OF PIPELINE COMPANIES
General Powers

**62.** (1) A company may, for the purposes
of its undertaking, subject to this Act and its
Special Act,
  * (_a_) enter into and upon any Crown land
without previous licence therefor, or into or
upon the land of any person, lying in the
intended route of its pipeline, and make
surveys, examinations or other necessary
arrangements on such land for fixing the
site of the pipeline, and set out and
ascertain such parts of the land as are
necessary and proper for the pipeline ;
(6) purchase, take and hold of and from
any person any land or other property
necessary for the construction, maintenance
and operation of its pipeline and alienate,
sell or dispose of any of its land or property
that for any reason has become unnecessary
for the purpose of the line ;
  * (_c_) construct, lay, carry or place its pipeline
across, upon or under the land of any
person on the located line of the pipeline ;
  * (_d_) join its pipeline with the transmission
facilities of any other person at any point
on its route ;
  * (_e_) construct, erect and maintain all neces
sary and convenient roads, buildings,
houses, stations, depots, wharves, docks and
other structures, and construct, purchase
and acquire machinery and other apparatus
necessary for the construction, maintenance
and operation of its pipeline ;
  * (_f_) construct, maintain and operate branch
lines, and for that purpose exercise all the
powers, privileges and authority necessary
therefor, in as full and ample a manner as
for a pipeline ;
  * (_gf_) from time to time alter, repair or
discontinue the works or any of them,
mentioned in this section, and substitute
others in their stead ;
  * (_h_) transmit hydrocarbons by pipeline and
regulate the time and manner in which
hydrocarbons shall be transmitted, and the
tolls to be charged therefor; and
  * (_i_) do all other acts necessary for the
construction, maintenance and operation of
its line.
(2) For the purposes of this Part the
expression "pipeline" includes a line for the
transmission of sulphur or sulphur compounds
obtained from an oil or gas well, or any
product thereof, connecting a province with
any other or others of the provinces or
extending beyond the limits of a province.
1959, c. 46, s. 62.

**63.** A company shall not, without the leave
of the Board,
  * (_a_) sell, convey or lease to any person its
pipeline, in whole or in part ;
(6) purchase or lease from any person any
line for the transmission of hydrocarbons ;
  * (_c_) enter into an agreement for amalgama
tion with any other company ; or
  * (_d_) abandon the operation of a pipeline.
1959, c. 46, s. 63.

**64.** A company shall, in the exercise of the
granted by this Act or a Special Act,
as little damage as possible, and shall
full compensation in the manner
persons interested, for all damage sustained
them by reason of the exercise of such
powers. 1959, c. 46, s. 64.

**65.** A company operating a pipeline from
a place in Canada to a place on the
international boundary line may exercise,
beyond such boundary, in so far as permitted
by the laws there in force, the powers that it
may exercise in Canada. 1959, c. 46, s. 65.
Taking and Using Lands

**66.** (j) No company shall take possession
of, use or occupy lands vested in Her Majesty
without the consent of the Governor in
Council.
(2) A company may, with the consent of
the Governor in Council and upon such terms
as the Governor in Council may prescribe,
take and appropriate, for the use of its
pipeline and works, so much of the lands of
Her Majesty lying on the route of the line
that have not been granted or sold, as is
necessary for the pipeline, and also so much
of the public beach, or bed of a lake, river or
stream, or of the lands so vested covered with
the waters of such lake, river or stream as is
necessary for making, completing and using
its pipeline and works.
(3) Where lands are vested in Her Majesty
for a special purpose, or subject to a trust, the
compensation money that a company pays
therefor shall be held and applied by the
Governor in Council for the like purpose or
trust.
(4) Thi s section does not apply to anything
done pursuant to leave obtained therefor
under section 76. 1959, c. 46, s. 66.

**67.** (i) N O company shall take possession
of or occupy lands in an Indian reserve
without the consent of the Governor in
Council.
(2) Where, with the consent of the Governor
in Council, lands in an Indian reserve are
taken possession of, used or occupied by a
or where they are injuriously
by the construction of a pipeline,
compensation shall be made therefor as in the
case of lands taken without the consent of the
owner. 1959, c. 46, s. 67.
Mines and Minerals

**68.** No company shall, without the authori
ty of the Board, locate the line of its proposed
pipeline, or construct the pipeline or portion
thereof, so as to obstruct or interfere with or
injuriously affect the working of or the access
or adit to a mine then open, or for the opening
of which preparations are, at the time of such
location, being lawfully and openly made.
1959, c. 46, s. 68.

**69.** A company is not entitled to mines,
ores, metals, coal, slate, oil, gas or other
minerals in or under lands purchased by it, or
taken by it under compulsory powers given to
it by this Act, except only the parts thereof
that are necessary to be dug, carried away or
used in the construction of the works, and
except as provided in this section, all such
mines and minerals shall be deemed to be
excepted from the conveyance of such lands.
1959, c. 46, s. 69.

**70.** (1) No person shall work or prospect
for mines or minerals lying unde; i. pipeline
or any of the works connected therewith, or
within forty yards therefrom, until leave
therefor has been obtained from the Board.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), leave
from the Board is not required in the case of
a well taking oil or gas from lands lying under
a pipeline or any of the works connected
therewith if the well is not drilled within
forty yards of the pipeline.
(3) Upon an application to the Board for
leave to work or prospect for mines or
minerals, the applicant shall submit a plan
and profile of the portion of the pipeline to
be affected thereby, giving all reasonable and
necessary information and details as to the
proposed operations.
(4) The Board may grant the application
upon such terms and conditions for the
protection and safety of the public as to the
Board seem expedient, and may order that
such things be done as under the circumstances
appear to the Board best adapted to remove
or diminish the danger arising or likely to
arise from the proposed operations. 1959, c.
46, s. 70.

**71.** If necessary in order to ascertain
whether any mining or prospecting operations
have been carried on so as to injure or to be
detrimental to a pipeline or its safety or the
safety of the public, a company may, with
the written permission of the Board and after
giving twenty-four hours notice in writing,
enter upon any lands through or near which
its pipeline passes where any mining or
prospecting operations are being carried on,
and enter into and return from the site of the
operations ; and for such purposes the compa
ny may make use of any apparatus used in
connection with such operations and use all
necessary means for discovering the distance
from its pipeline to the place where the
operations are being carried on. 1959, c. 46,
s. 71.

**72.** A company shall, from time to time,
,. /
P av to the owner, lessee or occupier of any
mines such compensation as the Board shall
fix and order to be paid for or by reason of
any severance by a pipeline of the land lying
over such mines, or because of the working of
the mines being prevented, stopped or
interrupted, or because of the mines having
to be worked in such manner and under such
restrictions as not to injure or be detrimental
to the pipeline, and also for any minerals not
purchased by the company that cannot be
obtained by reason of the construction and
operation of its line. 1959, c. 46, s. 72.
Extent of Lands that may be Taken

**73.** Subject to section 74, the lands that
may, without the consent of the owner, be
taken for the right-of-way of a pipeline shall
not exceed sixty feet in breadth. 1959, c. 46,
s. 73.
Leave to Take Additional Lands

**74.** (j) Where a company at any time
requires more ample space than it possesses
or may take under section 73, for the efficient
construction, maintenance or operation of a
pipeline or for constructing or taking any
works or measures ordered by the Board, it
may apply to the Board for authority to take,
without the consent of the owner, the
additional lands required for such purposes.
(2) The Board shall set a time for the
hearing of the application which shall be
sufficient to permit at least twenty-one days
notice thereof to be given by the company to
the owners or possessors of the additional
lands required, and the company shall give
notice thereof accordingly and shall, upon
such hearing, furnish to the Board copies of
such notices, with affidavits of the service
thereof.
(3) The company, upon the application,
shall also furnish to the Board such plans,
profiles and books of reference and additional
information as the Board may require.
(4) After the time stated in such notices,
and the hearing of such parties interested as
may appear, the Board may, in its discretion
and upon such terms and conditions as it
deems expedient, authorize in writing the
taking for the said purposes of the whole or
any portion of the lands applied for.
(5) Copies of the authorization of the Board
and of the plan, profile and book of reference,
certified as such by the Secretary of the
Board, shall be deposited with the registrars
of deeds of the districts or counties in which
the lands are situated. 1959, c. 46, s. 74; 1960-
61, c. 52, s. 11.
Purchase and Conveyance; Expropriation

**75.** (1) Sections 145 to 184 and 186 of the
Railway Act, in so far as they are reasonably
applicable and not inconsistent with this Act,
apply mutatis mutandis to companies and their
works and undertakings.
(2) The provisions of Part III respecting a
plan, profile and book of reference are
mutatis mutandis to a company in
exercise of its powers under this section in
of a line as described in subsection
1959, c. 46, s. 75.
Construction over other Utility Lines, etc.

**76.** (1) In this section
"appropriate authority" means
  * (_a_) with respect to a navigable water
including a canal, the Minister of Transport,
(6) with respect to a railway, the Canadian
Transport Commission, and
  * (_c_) with respect to any other utility, the
National Energy Board ;
"utility" means a navigable water, canal,
railway, highway or irrigation ditch or an
underground telegraph or telephone line or
a line for the transmission of hydrocarbons,
power or any other substance.
(2) The pipeline of a company may, if
leave therefor is first obtained from the
appropriate authority, be carried across any
utility and for such purpose may be construct
ed upon, along or under any such utility.
(3) Upon any application for leave under
this section, a company shall submit to the
appropriate authority such plans and profiles
and other information as the appropriate
authority may require.
(4) The appropriate authority may, by
order, grant the application in whole or in
part and upon such terms and conditions as
the appropriate authority considers proper.
(5) The appropriate authority may provide
that leave under this section is not necessary,
if the pipeline is constructed in accordance
with the orders, regulations, plans and
specifications made, adopted or approved by
the appropriate authority for such purposes.
(5) T ne appropriate authority may grant
appropriate authority is satisfied that the
work was urgently required and, prior to the
commencement of construction, the appropri
ate authority was notified of the company s
intention to proceed with the proposed work.
(7) No approval under the Navigable Waters
Protection Act or section 189 of the Railway
Act is required for the construction of any
work if leave for the construction thereof has
been obtained under this section.
(8) Except as provided in this section, a
pipeline shall not be constructed as described
in subsection (2) without leave of the
appropriate authority under this section. 1959,
c. 46, s. 76 ; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 94 ; SOR/66-457.

**77.** (1) No highway, private road, railway,
irrigation ditch, drain, drainage ditch, sewer,
telegraph, telephone line or line for the
transmission of hydrocarbons, power or any
other substance shall, except by leave of the
Board, be carried across, along, upon or under
any pipeline.
(2) Upon application for leave, the Board
may grant the application in whole or in part
and upon such terms and conditions as the
Board considers proper. 1959, c. 46, s. 77 ; 1960-
61, c. 52,s. 12.
Weeds

**78.** A company shall cut thistles and all
noxious weeds growing on the right-of-way,
and upon the land of the company adjoining
its pipeline, and shall cut down or root out
and destroy such thistles and weeds each year
before they have sufficiently matured to seed.
1959, c. 46, s. 78.
Executions, etc.

**79.** It is hereby declared
  * (_a_) that nothing in this Act restricts or
prohibits any of the following transactions,
namely,
  * (_i_) the sale under execution of any
property of a company, or
  * (_ii_) the creation of any lien, mortgage,
charge or other security on the property
of the company, or the sale, pursuant to
an order of a court, of any property of
the company to enforce or realize on any
such lien, mortgage, charge or other
security; and
  * (_fr_) that a transaction mentioned in para
graph (a) in respect of any property of the
company is subject to the same laws to
which it would be subject if the work and
undertaking of the company were a local
work or undertaking in the province in
which that property is situated. 1959, c. 46,
s. 79.
Construing Special Acts

**80.** Except as otherwise provided in this
Part,
  * (_a_) this Act shall be construed as incorporate
with a Special Act, and
(6) where the provisions of this Part and a
Special Act relate to the same subject-
matter, the provisions of the Special Act
shall, in so far as is necessary to give effect
to the Special Act, be taken to override the
provisions of this Part. 1959, c. 46, s. 80.

## PART VI

## EXPORTS AND IMPORTS
Gas and Power

**81.** Except as provided in the regulations,
no person shall export any gas or power or
import any gas except under the authority of
and in accordance with a licence issued under
this Part. 1959, c. 46, s. 81.
Issue of Licences

**82.** (1) Subject to the regulations, the
Board may issue licences, upon such terms
and conditions as are prescribed by the
regulations,
  * (_a_) for the exportation of power or gas, and
(6) for the importation of gas.
(2) A licence issued under this Part may be
restricted or limited as to area, quantity or
time or as to class or kind of products.
(3) Every licence issued under this Part is
subject to the condition that the person to
whom it is issued will comply with the
provisions of this Act and the regulations as
in force at the date of the issue thereof and
as subsequently enacted, made or amended,
and will comply with every order made under
the authority of this Act. 1959, c. 46, s. 82;
1960-61, c. 52, s. 13.

**83.** Upon an application for a licence the
Board shall have regard to all considerations
that appear to it to be relevant and, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Board shall satisfy itself that
  * (_a_) the quantity of gas or power to be
exported does not exceed the surplus
remaining after due allowance has been
made for the reasonably foreseeable require
ments for use in Canada having regard to
the trends in the discovery of gas in
Canada; and
  * (_fe_) the price to be charged by an applicant
for gas or power exported by him is just
and reasonable in relation to the public
interest. 1959, c. 46, s. 83.
Revocation and Suspension

**84.** (1) Subject to subsection (2) and the
regulations, the Board may by order revoke
or suspend a licence issued under this Part if,
in the opinion of the Board, the person to
whom it was issued has violated or failed to
comply with any term or condition thereof.
(2) No order shall be made under this
section unless notice has been given to the
holder of the licence who is alleged to have
violated or failed to comply with any term or
condition thereof and an opportunity has
been afforded to him of being heard. 1959, c.
46, s. 84.
Regulations

**85.** The Governor in Council may make
for carrying into effect the
and provisions of this Part and,
restricting the generality of the
may make regulations respecting
  * (_a_) the information to be furnished by
applicants for licences and the procedure to
be followed in applying for licences and in
issuing licences ;
(6) the duration of licences, not exceeding
twenty-five years, from a date to be fixed
in the licence, the quantities that may be
exported or imported under licences and
any other terms or conditions to which
licences may be subject ;
  * (_c_) units of measurement and measuring
instruments or devices to be used in
connection with the exportation of gas or
power or the importation of gas ;
  * (_d_) the inspection of any instruments,
devices, plant, equipment, books, records or
accounts or any other thing used for or in
connection with the exportation of gas or
power or the importation of gas ; and
  * (_e_) reports or other information to be
supplied by persons to whom licences have
been issued and any other matter associated
with their use. 1959, c. 46, s. 85.
Penalties

**86.** (1) Every person who violates any of
the provisions of this Part or the regulations
made under this Part is guilty of an offence
punishable on summary conviction.
(2) Every person who violates section 81 is
guilty of a separate offence for each day on
which such violation takes place. 1959, c. 46,
s. 86.
Extension to Oil

**87.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
proclamation extend the application of this
Part to oil.
(2) Upon the issue of a proclamation under
subsection (1), the expression "oil or gas" shall
be deemed to be substituted for the expression
"gas" wherever it occurs in this Part and in
section 88.
(3) The Governor in Council may by
regulation exempt any class of oil or oil
products or any area from the operation of
or any of the provisions of this Part.
(4) A proclamation issued under this section
be laid before both Houses of Parliament
as soon as may be after it is issued, and a
notice of motion in either House signed by
ten members thereof and made in accordance
with the rules of that House within seven
days of the day the proclamation was laid
before that House, praying that the procla
mation be revoked, shall be debated in that
House at the first convenient opportunity
within the four sitting days next after the
day the motion in that House was made ; and
if both Houses of Parliament resolve that the
proclamation be revoked, it shall cease to
have effect and the provisions of this Part
shall thereupon cease to be applicable to oil.
1959, c. 46, s. 87; 1960-61, c. 52, s. 14.

## PART VII

## GENERAL
Regulations

**88.** (1) The Board may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, make regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the manner in which the
accounts of a company shall be kept ;
(6) prescribing the classes of property for
which depreciation charges may, for the
purpose of establishing tolls, properly be
included under operating expenses and the
rate of depreciation that for such purpose
shall be charged with respect to each such
class of property ;
  * (_c_) prescribing a uniform system of accounts
applicable to any class of company ; and
  * (_d_) requiring companies and persons export
ing gas or power or importing gas to furnish
returns and information respecting capital,
traffic, revenues, expenses and such other
information as may be required for the
purposes of this Act.
(2) Every person who violates a regulation
made under this section is guilty of an offence
punishable on summary conviction. 1959, c.
46, s. 88.

**89.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect. 1959, c. 46,
s. 89.
Her Majesty Bound

**90.** Her Majesty is bound by this Act. 1959,
c. 46, s. 90.
Report to Parliament

**91.** The Board shall within three months
after the 31st day of December in each year
submit to the Minister a report on the
activities of the Board under this Act for that
year, and the Minister shall cause the report
to be laid before Parliament within fifteen
days after the receipt thereof or, if Parliament
is not then sitting, on any of the first fifteen
days next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
1959, c. 46,8.91.
Expenditures

**92.** All expenditures for the purposes of
this Act shall be paid out of money
appropriated by Parliament therefor. 1959, c.
46, s. 92.
