Film Act. R.S., c. 185, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
Account" means the National Film Board
Operating Account established under sec
tion 18;
accounts receivable of the Board" means the
payments due and owing to the Receiver
General in respect of operations of the
Board and any amounts that in accordance
with this Act are due and transferable to
the Account from appropriations made by
Parliament ;
Board" means the National Film Board ;
Commissioner" means the Government Film
Commissioner appointed under this Act ;
department" means any department or
branch of the Government of Canada and
any agent of Her Majesty in right of
Canada ;
film" means motion pictures, still photo
graphs, photographic displays, filmstrips
and such other forms of visual presentation
as consist primarily of photographs or
photographic reproductions ;
film activity" means any activity in relation
to the production, distribution, projection
or exhibition of film ;
inventory of the Board" means the stores,
supplies, materials and equipment held by
the Board, and finished or partially finished
work of the Board in respect of the cost of
which payment has not yet been received
or transferred and credited to the Account
nor included in accounts receivable of the
Board ;
"Minister" means the Minister designated by
the Governor in Council for the purposes
of this Act. R.S., c. 185, s. 2.
RESPONSIBILITY OF MINISTER

**3.** For the purposes of this Act and subject
to its provisions, the Minister shall control
and direct the operations of the National
Film Board. R.S., c. 185, s. 3.

## NATIONAL FILM BOARD

**4.** (1) There shall be a National Film
Board, consisting of the Commissioner, who
shall be Chairman, and eight other members
to be appointed by the Governor in Council,
three of whom shall be selected from the
public service of Canada or the Canadian
Forces, and five of whom shall be selected
from outside the public service and Canadian
Forces.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) each member
of the Board, other than the Commissioner,
holds office for three years, but may be
removed for cause at any time by the
Governor in Council.
(3) Of the members first appointed, three
shall be appointed for a period of one year,
three for a period of two years and two for a
period of three years.
(4) A retiring member of the Board is
eligible for re-appointment.
(5) When a member ceases to be a member
before the end of the term for which he was
appointed, the Governor in Council shall
appoint a person to be a member for the
remainder of that term. R.S., c. 185, s. 4.

**5.** No person is eligible for appointment to
film activity. R.S., c. 185, s. 5.

**6.** A member of the Board, other than the
Commissioner or a member of the public
of Canada or Canadian Forces, may
be paid such fee for each meeting of the
Board he attends as may be fixed by by-law
of the Board, and the members of the Board
are entitled to be paid actual travelling and
living expenses necessarily incurred in con
nection with the business of the Board. R.S.,
c. 185,s.6.

**7.** (1) The Board shall meet at the call of
the Chairman but, in any event, not more
than three months shall elapse between
meetings of the Board.
(2) Five members of the Board constitute a
quorum.
(3) Each member has one vote in the
transaction of the business of the Board and
if the number of votes is equal the Chairman
has an additional vote.
(4) The Board, with the approval of the
Minister, may make by-laws not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act with respect to
the conduct of the business of the Board.
R.S., c. 185, s. 7.

**8.** The Chairman shall furnish a copy of
the minutes of each meeting of the Board to
the Minister. R.S., c. 185, s. 8.

## PURPOSES OF THE BOARD

**9.** The Board is established to initiate and
promote the production and distribution of
films in the national interest and in particular
  * (_a_) to produce and distribute and to promote
the production and distribution of films
designed to interpret Canada to Canadians
and to other nations ;
(6) to represent the Government of Canada
in its relations with persons engaged in
commercial motion picture film activity in
connection with motion picture films for
the Government or any department thereof ;
  * (_c_) to engage in research in film activity
and to make available the results thereof to
persons engaged in the production of films;
  * (_d_) to advise the Governor in Council in
connection with film activities ; and
  * (_e_) to discharge such other duties relating
to film activity as the Governor in Council
may direct it to undertake. R.S., c. 185,
s. 9.

## POWERS OF BOARD
1Q. (1) Subject to the direction and control
of the Minister, the Board may, for the
purposes for which it is established,
  * (_a_) make, project, exhibit or distribute or
cause to be made, projected, exhibited or
distributed films in Canada or elsewhere on
behalf of the Board or on behalf of other
departments or persons;
(6) determine the manner in which moneys
available to the Board for the production
of a film may best be expended in the
production thereof;
  * (_c_) acquire personal property in the name
of the Board ;
  * (_d_) enter into contracts in the name of the
Board, including contracts for personal
services ;
  * (_e_) dispose of personal property held in the
name of the Board or administered by the
Board on behalf of Her Majesty, in
processed form or otherwise, at such price
and upon such terms as the Board deems
advisable ;
(/) acquire in the name of the Board
copyrights in any literary, musical or artistic
works, plays, songs, recordings and films ;
  * (_g_) acquire in the name of the Board and
use any patent or patent rights, brevets
d invention, licences or concessions;
  * (_h_) make arrangements or agreements with
any person or organization for the use of
any rights, privileges or concessions; and
  * (_i_) do such other acts and things as are
necessary or incidental for the purposes for
which the Board is established.
(2) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
incurred by the Board on behalf of Her
whether in its name or in the name
Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
against the Board in the name of the
Board in any court that would have jurisdic
tion if the Board were a corporation that is
not an agent of Her Majesty. R.S., c. 185,
s. 10.

**11.** (1) Except with the approval of the
Governor in Council, no department shall
initiate the production or processing of a
motion picture film without the authority of
the Board, and the production and processing
of all motion picture films by or for
departments shall be undertaken by the Board
unless the Board is of opinion that it is in the
public interest that it be otherwise undertaken
and authorizes it to be so undertaken.
(2) Where the Board has undertaken a film
activity at the request of a Minister or other
person presiding over or in charge of a
department, there may be transferred out of
the moneys appropriated by Parliament for
or available for expenditure by that depart
ment to the National Film Board Operating
Account such sums to defray the costs incurred
by the Board for that film activity as such
Minister or other persons and the Board
agree. R.S., c. 185, s. 11.

**12.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the Board shall not, unless the approval of
the Treasury Board has been obtained on the
recommendation of the Minister, enter into a
contract involving an estimated expenditure
in excess of fifteen thousand dollars. R.S., c.
185, s. 12.

**13.** (1) With the approval of the Treasury
Board obtained on the recommendation of
the Minister, the Board may formulate a plan
of organization for the establishment and
classification of the continuing positions
necessary for the proper functioning of the
Board and the establishment of rates of
compensation for each class of position,
having regard to the rates of compensation
and conditions of employment for comparable
positions in other branches of the public
service of Canada and outside the public
service.
(2) With the approval of the Treasury
Board obtained on the recommendation of
the Minister, the Board may amend or vary
a plan approved under subsection (1).
(3) Subject to the plan of organization
approved under this section and subject to
subsection (4), the Board may appoint persons
for a term or during pleasure to fill the
positions established by the plan, prescribe
their conditions of employment and provide
for their promotion, salary and salary
increases, but the provisions of the Public
Service Employment Act relating to political
partisanship and, where applicable, the con
dition of employment relating to payment of
gratuity on death pursuant to the Financial
Administration Act apply to the persons
appointed under this section.
(4) The appointment by the Board of a
person to a continuing position at a salary
exceeding five thousand dollars is not effective
until approved by the Governor in Council.
(5) Each officer or employee employed by
the Board under this section shall, before
entering upon his duties, take an oath of
office and secrecy in the form set out in the
schedule.
(6) Where any person who
  * (_a_) immediately prior to the 14th day of
October 1950
  * (_i_) was employed on the staff of the
Government Motion Picture Bureau, and
  * (_ii_) was a contributor under the Civil
Service Superannuation Act, and
(6) immediately after the 14th day of
October 1950 was appointed or employed
under this Act,
is retired from his position under this Act, he
may be assigned to a position in the Public
Service for which he is qualified. R.S., c. 185,
s. 13.

**14.** The Board may employ such persons
in positions other than in continuing positions
in the plan approved under section 13, as may
be required from time to time for the
operations of the Board and may determine
their remuneration and conditions of employ
R.S., c. 185, s. 14.

## GOVERNMENT FILM COMMISSIONER

**15.** (1) There shall be a Government Film
Commissioner who shall be appointed by the
Governor in Council on the recommendation
of the Board and paid such salary as the
Governor in Council may determine.
(2) The Commissioner shall be appointed
to hold office for a period not exceeding five
years but may be removed from office for
cause at any time by the Governor in Council
on the recommendation of the Board.
(3) Qn the expiration of his term of office
the Commissioner is eligible to be re-appointed
as Commissioner.
(4) In the case of the absence or inability
of the Commissioner to carry out his duties
for any reason, or in the case of a vacancy in
the office of Commissioner, the Board may,
subject to the approval of the Minister,
appoint an acting Commissioner. R.S., c. 185,
s. 15.

**16.** (1) The Commissioner is the chief
executive officer of the Board and is charged
with the administration of the operations of
the Board and may, subject to the by-laws of
the Board, exercise all powers of the Board in
the name of the Board.
(2) Subject to the by-laws of the Board, the
Commissioner may authorize officers or
employees of the Board to act on behalf of
and in the name of the Board. R.S., c. 185,
s. 16.
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

**17.** (1) The Board shall submit to the
Minister an annual budget for each fiscal
year showing the estimated revenues and
expenditures of the Board for its operations
during that fiscal year.
(2) The Board shall establish and maintain
an accounting system satisfactory to the
Minister and all books of account, records and
papers of the Board shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the Minister or of such
persons as he may designate. R.S., c. 185, s.
17; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**18.** (1) An account shall be established in
the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the
purposes of this Act to be known as the
National Film Board Operating Account.
(2) All expenditures made by the Board,
other than expenditures for the acquisition of
capital equipment for the Board s own use,
shall be shown as expenditures in the Account
and the Board may, subject to subsection (4),
make expenditures for the purposes of this
Act, other than for the acquisition of capital
equipment, from moneys in the Consolidated
Revenue Fund, which shall be shown as
expenditures in the Account.
(3) There shall be shown as receipts in the
Account
  * (_a_) all moneys received by the Receiver
General in respect of operations of the
Board ;
(6) amounts transferred from appropria
tions made by Parliament for the operations
of the Board, other than for the acquisition
of capital equipment by the Board, in
respect of expenditures that have been
incurred in operations of the Board for
which the moneys were appropriated ; and
  * (_c_) amounts transferred from appropria
tions for expenditure by other departments
for film activities, in respect of expenditures
that have been incurred by the Board for
films undertaken by the Board for those
departments.
(4) The expenditures made by the Board
and shown in the Account shall not at any
time exceed the receipts shown in the Account
by more than two million eight hundred
thousand dollars or such lesser amount as
may be fixed by the Treasury Board.
(5) At the end of each fiscal year the value
of the inventory of the Board and accounts
receivable of the Board shall be determined
in accordance with regulations to be made by
the Governor in Council, and if such value,
added to the receipts shown in the Account,
exceeds the total of expenditures shown in
the Account and liabilities in respect of
operations of the Board then due and payable,
an amount equal to the excess shall be
transferred to the Consolidated Revenue
Fund as revenue, but if the value is less no
amount may be credited to the Account to
meet the deficiency except pursuant to an
appropriation by Parliament for that purpose.
R.S., c. 185, s. 18; 1967-68, c. 34, Sch. vote
L75c.

**19.** Except as otherwise provided in this
Administration
Act Act, the Financial Administration Act applies
in respect of operations under this Act. R.S.,
c. 185, s. 19.

## REPORTS
Annual report 20. (1) As soon as is practicable after the
end of each fiscal year the Board shall submit
a report of the operations of the Board for
the fiscal year in such form as the Minister
may prescribe.
Laying before (2) The Minister shall lay the annual report
Parliament
of the Board, made under subsection (1) before
Parliament within fourteen days after the
receipt thereof if Parliament is then sitting or
if Parliament is not then sitting, within
fourteen days after the commencement of the
next ensuing session. R.S., c. 185, s. 20.
Reports to 2 1. The Board shall furnish to the Minister
Minister
at such times and in such manner as he may
require, such statements or reports in addition
to those required by the provisions of this Act
in respect of its business or operations as he
may require. R.S., c. 185, s. 21.

## SCHEDULE

## OATH OF OFFICE AND SECRECY
I, (A.B.), solemnly and sincerely swear that I will faithfully
and honestly fulfil the duties which devolve upon me by reason
of my employment with the National Film Board and that I
will not, without due authority in that behalf, disclose or make
known any matter which comes to my knowledge by reason of
such employment. So help me God-
R.S, c. 185, Sch.
