
# CHAPTER N-9
An Act to establish a Department of National
Health and Welfare

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of National Health and Welfare Act. R.S., c.
74, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Department" means the Department of
National Health and Welfare ;
"Deputy Minister" means the Deputy Minis
ter, or Deputy Ministers, of National Health
and Welfare ;
"Minister" means the Minister of National
Health and Welfare. R.S., c. 74, s. 2.

**3.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of National Health and Welfare over which
the Minister of National Health and Welfare
appointed by commission under the Great
Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
direction of the Department and holds office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 74, s. 3.

**4.** The Governor in Council may appoint
an officer, or two officers, called the Deputy
Minister, or Deputy Ministers, of National
Health and Welfare, to be the deputy head,
or deputy heads, of the Department and to
hold office during pleasure. R.S., c. 74, s. 4.

**5.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister extend to and include all matters
relating to the promotion or preservation of
the health, social security and social welfare
of the people of Canada over which the
Parliament of Canada has jurisdiction, and,
regulations of the Government of Canada
as are not by law assigned to any other
department of the Government of Canada
or any minister thereof relating in any way
to the health, social security and welfare of
the people of Canada ;
(6) investigation and research into public
health and welfare ;
  * (_c_) the inspection and medical care of
immigrants and seamen, and the adminis
tration of marine hospitals, and such other
hospitals of the Government of Canada as
may be committed to its administration by
order of the Governor in Council ;
  * (_d_) the supervision, as regards the public
health, of railways, boats, ships and all
other methods of transportation ;
  * (_e_) the promotion and conservation of the
health of the civil servants and other
Government employees ;
  * (_f_) the enforcement of any rules or regula
tions made by the International Joint
Commission, promulgated pursuant to the
treaty between the United States of America
and His Majesty, King Edward VII, relating
to boundary waters and questions arising
between the United States and Canada, so
far as they relate to public health ;
  * (_g_) subject to the Statistics Act, the collec
tion, publication and distribution of infor
mation relating to the public health,
improved sanitation and social and indus
trial conditions affecting the health and
lives of the people ; and
  * (_h_) cooperation with provincial authorities
with a view to the coordination of efforts
made or proposed for preserving and
improving the public health and providing
for the social security and welfare of the
people of Canada. R.S., c. 74, s. 5; 1962-63,
c. 16, s. 1.

**6.** The Governor in Council may establish
74, s. 6.

**7.** (1) There shall be a Dominion Council
Health consisting of the Deputy Minister,
shall be chairman, the chief executive
of the provincial department or board
of health of each province, and such other
persons, not to exceed five in number, as may
be appointed by the Governor in Council,
who shall hold office during good behaviour
for three years.
(2) The Dominion Council of Health shall
meet at such times and places as the Minister
may direct, and shall be charged with such
duties and powers as the Governor in Council
may prescribe. R.S., c. 74, s. 7.

**8.** (1) There shall be a council to be called
the National Council of Welfare consisting of
a chairman and not more than twenty other
members to be appointed by the Governor in
Council to hold office during pleasure for
such term, not exceeding three years, as will
ensure as far as possible the expiration in any
one year of the terms of appointment of fewer
than half of the members so appointed.
(2) A retiring member of the National
Council of Welfare is eligible for re-appoint
ment to the Council. 1962-63, c. 16, s. 2; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 53.

**9.** Each member of the National Council
of Welfare may be paid such remuneration as
may be approved by the Governor in Council
and is entitled to be paid reasonable travelling
and other expenses incurred by him while
absent from his ordinary place of residence in
the course of his duties under this Act. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 53.

**10.** (1) It is the function of the National
Council of Welfare to advise the Minister in
respect of such matters relating to welfare as
the Minister may refer to the Council for its
consideration or the Council considers appro
priate.
(2) The National Council of Welfare shall
meet at such times and places as the Minister
may direct. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 53.

**11.** Nothing in this Act or in any regula
tions made hereunder authorizes the Minister
or any officer of the Department to exercise
any jurisdiction or control over any provincial
or municipal board of health or other health
authority operating under the laws of any
province. R.S., c. 74, s. 8.

**12.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations to give effect to and carry out the
objects of this Act and may impose penalties
for violation of any such regulation by way
of fine not exceeding two hundred dollars or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
months enforceable upon summary conviction.
R.S., c. 74, s. 9.

**13.** The Minister shall submit annually a
report to Parliament in such form as may be
prescribed by the Governor in Council. U.S.,
c. 74, s. 10.
