Allegiance Act. R.S., c. 197, s. 1.

**2.** (1) Every person in Canada, who, either
of his own accord, or in compliance with any
lawful requirement made of him, or in
obedience to the directions of any Act or law
in force in Canada, except the British North
America Act, 1867, and the Canadian Citizen
ship Act, desires to take an oath of allegiance,
shall have administered to him and take the
oath in the following form, and no other:
I, A.B., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true
allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second,
her heirs and successors according to law. So Help Me God.
(2) Where the name of Her Majesty is
expressed in the oath of allegiance, the name
of the Queen or the King of the United
Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and
Territories, for the time being, shall be
substituted from time to time.
(3) The Governor in Council may make
regulations, which have the force of law,
requiring any person appointed to or holding
an office that is under the legislative authority
of the Parliament of Canada to take the oath
of allegiance notwithstanding that the taking
of the oath is not made necessary by any
existing law in force in Canada.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations, which have the force of law,
requiring any person appointed to or holding
an office that is under the legislative authority
of the Parliament of Canada to take an oath
the faithful performance of the duties of such
office, in any case in which the form of such
oath is not prescribed by an existing law in
force in Canada. R.S., c. 197, s. 2.

**3.** It is not necessary for any person
appointed to any civil office in Canada, or
for any mayor or other officer or member of
any corporation therein, or for any person
admitted, called or received as a barrister,
advocate, notary public, attorney, solicitor or
proctor, to make any declaration or subscrip
tion, or to take or subscribe any other oath
than the oath aforesaid, and also such oath
for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office, or for the due exercise of his
profession or calling as is required by any law
in that behalf. R.S., c. 197, s. 3.

**4.** The oath of allegiance set forth in this
Act, together with the oath of office or oath
for the due exercise of any profession or
calling, shall be taken within the period and
in the manner, and subject to the disabilities
and penalties for the omission thereof,
provided by law with respect to such oaths in
all such cases respectively. R.S., c. 197, s. 4.

**5.** (j) ^.11 persons allowed by law in civil
r f~t i rr- i
cases, in any part of Canada, to affirm instead
of making oath, shall be permitted to take an
affirmation of allegiance in the like terms,
mutatis mutandis, as the oath of allegiance.
(2) Such affirmation of allegiance, taken
before the proper officer, shall in all cases be
accepted from those persons in lieu of such
oath, and has as to those affirmants the like
effect as the oath of allegiance. R.S., c. 197,
s. 5.

**6.** All justices of the peace and other
officers lawfully authorized either by virtue
of their office, or special commission from the
Crown for that purpose, may in any part of
Canada administer the oath of allegiance or
the affirmation of allegiance. R.S., c.
197, s. 6.
