
## CHAPTER P- 1
An Act to provide for the appointment of
Parliamentary Secretaries to Ministers

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Parliamen
tary Secretaries Act. 1959, c. 15, s. 1.

**2.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint one or more members of the House
of Commons to be Parliamentary Secretary
or Secretaries to a Minister.
(2) Not more than sixteen Parliamentary
Secretaries shall hold office at any one time.
(3) A Parliamentary Secretary shall be
appointed to hold office for a period not
exceeding twelve months from the date of his
appointment, and he ceases to hold office as
such when he ceases to be a member of the
House of Commons. 1959, c. 15, s. 2.

**3.** The Parliamentary Secretary or Secre
taries to a Minister shall assist the Minister
in such manner as the Minister directs. 1959,
c. 15,s.3.

**4.** (1) A Parliamentary Secretary shall be
paid a salary at the rate of four thousand
dollars per annum.
(2) The salary of a Parliamentary Secretary
under this Act shall be paid out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund and shall be
paid in monthly instalments on the last day
of each month. 1959, c. 15, s. 4.

**5.** The Governor in Council may make
providing for the payment to a
Parliamentary Secretary of reasonable tra
and other expenses
  * (_a_) incurred by him in the discharge of his
duties during a session of Parliament while
away from Ottawa, or
  * (_b_) incurred by him in the discharge of his
duties while away from his ordinary place
of residence during a period when Parlia
ment is not in session. 1959, c. 15, s. 5.

**6.** A person is not rendered ineligible to be
a member of the House of Commons or
disqualified from sitting or voting therein by
reason of his accepting or holding the office
of Parliamentary Secretary or receiving any
payment under this Act. 1959, c. 15, s. 6.
