
## CHAPTER P- 11
Act to provide compensation to farmers
whose agricultural products are con
taminated by pesticide residue, and to
provide for appeals from compensation
awards

## SHORT TITLE
l. This Act may be cited as the Pesticide
Residue Compensation Act. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Department" means the Department of
Agriculture ;
"farmer" means a producer of primary
agricultural products for sale ;
"inspector" means a person designated as an
inspector pursuant to section 6 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"pesticide residue" means the residue of any
pesticide or degradation-product thereof in
or upon an agricultural product. 1968-69, c.
34,s.2.

## PARTI

## PESTICIDE RESIDUE COMPENSATION

**3.** (1) Subject to this Act, where an inspec
tion of an agricultural product of any farmer
under the Food and Drugs Act discloses
a pesticide
  * (_a_) that is registered under the Pest Control
Products Act or deemed by any other Act of
the Parliament of Canada to be registered
under that Act, and
(6) that, in the opinion of the Minister, was
used in accordance with recommendations
made by the department of agriculture of
any province and approved or concurred in
by the Department, or in accordance with
practices recommended, directed or con
curred in by the Department,
if , as a result of the presence in or upon that
product of the pesticide residue, the sale of
that product would be contrary to the Food
and Drugs Act or the regulations made
thereunder, the Minister may pay to the
farmer, on such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed by the regulations, compensation
for any loss occasioned to the farmer by
reason of such pesticide residue.
(2) No compensation shall be paid to a
farmer pursuant to subsection (1) unless the
Minister
  * (_a_) receives from the Minister of National
Health and Welfare written confirmation
that an inspection of an agricultural product
of that farmer, made under the Food and
Drugs Act, has disclosed the presence of
pesticide residue and that the sale of that
product would be contrary to that Act or
the regulations made thereunder ; and
(6) is satisfied that the pesticide residue in
or upon the product is not present because
of any fault of the farmer, his employee or
agent, or of a previous owner of the land
on which the product was grown, or that
previous owner s employee or agent.
(3) The compensation that may be paid by
the Minister to a farmer pursuant to subsection
(1) in respect of any loss shall not exceed such
maximum amount as may be prescribed by
the regulations.
(4) No compensation shall be paid to a
  * (_a_) prescribing the procedures to be followed
in claiming compensation ;
  * (_b_) prescribing the methods to be used in
determining the eligibility of any farmer
for compensation ;
  * (_c_) prescribing the methods to be used in
determining the amount of loss occasioned
to a fanner and the maximum amount of
compensation to be paid with respect to
any loss ;
  * (_d_) prescribing the minimum amount of loss
in respect of which compensation may be
paid under this Act ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the terms and conditions for
the payment of compensation under this
Act;
(/) excluding any agricultural product or
any person or any class of products or
persons from the operation of this Act, and
prescribing the conditions of exclusion;
  * (_g_) prescribing the courses of action that
may be undertaken or the amounts that
may be paid by the Minister to reduce any
loss occasioned by pesticide residue ; and
  * (_h_) generally for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1968-69, c. 34, s.

**4.**

**5.** (1) No payment of compensation shall
be made to a farmer pursuant to this Act in
respect of a loss occasioned to him by reason
of pesticide residue in or upon an agricultural
product until the farmer has taken any steps
that the Minister deems necessary
  * (_a_) to reduce the loss occasioned to him by
reason of such pesticide residue, and
  * (_b_) to pursue any action that the farmer
may have in law against
  * (_i_) the manufacturer of the pesticide
causing the residue in or upon the
product, or
  * (_ii_) any person whose act or omission
resulted in or contributed to the presence
of the pesticide residue in or upon the
product.
(2) Where he deems it necessary the Minister
may require as a condition for the payment
of any compensation to a farmer under this
Act, the consent of that farmer for the
Minister to pursue on his behalf any legal
action against any manufacturer or person
referred to in paragraph
(3) The Minister shall in paying compensa
tion take into account any amounts realized
by the farmer as a result of any steps taken
pursuant to subsection (1) or as a result of
any legal action taken on behalf of the
farmer.
(4) Where a farmer realizes any amount
from the disposition or use of any product or
property in respect of which compensation
may be or has been paid pursuant to this Act,
he shall forthwith notify the Minister of the
amounts so received and, if he has been paid
any compensation by the Minister, shall repay
to the Minister such compensation payment
or part thereof as the Minister may direct.
(5) Where for any reason a larmer has been
paid any compensation under this Act to
which he is not entitled or compensation in
an amount in excess of the compensation to
which he is entitled, the amount thereof or
the excess amount, as the case may be, may
be recovered at any time as a debt due to Her
Majesty.
(6) Subject to such regulations as the
Governor in Council may prescribe, the
Minister may, with respect to any loss in
respect of which compensation may be paid
under this Act, undertake such course of
action or pay such amount as he deems
necessary to reduce such loss.
(7) Except as provided by this Act, no
compensation paid under this Act shall in
any way interfere with or lessen the right of
an aggrieved person to any legal remedy to
which he may be entitled. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 5.
Administration

**6.** The Minister may designate any quali
fied person as an inspector for the purposes
of this Act. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 6.

**7.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
time
  * (_a_) enter any place or premises in which he
reasonably believes there is any agricultural
product, pesticide or thing that will enable
him to carry out any investigation that
may be required by the Minister for the
purposes of paragraph 3(2)(b), and may
open any container or package found
therein or examine anything found therein
that the inspector has reason to believe will
assist him in such investigation, and take
samples thereof, and
(6) require any person in such place or
premises to produce for inspection or for
the purpose of obtaining copies thereof or
extracts therefrom, any books, shipping
bills, bills of lading, documents containing
mixing instructions, or other documents or
papers concerning any matter relevant to
the administration of this Act or the
regulations.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
certificate of his designation as an inspector
and on entering any place or premises referred
to in subsection (1) shall, if so required,
produce the certificate to the person in charge
thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of any
place or premises referred to in subsection (1)
and every person found therein shall give an
inspector all reasonable assistance in his power
to enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and the
regulations and shall furnish him with such
information with respect to the administration
of this Act and the regulations as he may
reasonably require. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 7.

**8.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector in the carrying out of his duties
or functions under this Act or the regulations.
(2) No person shall knowingly make a false
or misleading statement either verbally or in
writing in any claim or statement required or
permitted by this Act or make any such claim
or statement that by reason of any non
disclosure of facts is false or misleading. 1968-
69, c. 34, s. 8.
Offences and Penalties

**9.** (1) Every person who, or whose employee
agent, violates any provision of this Act is
of
  * (_a_) an indictable offence and is liable to
imprisonment for two years, or
(6) an offence punishable on summary
conviction.
(2) In any prosecution for an offence under
this Act, it is sufficient proof of the offence
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence, unless the
accused establishes that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or consent
and that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent its commission.
(3) Any proceedings by way of summary
conviction in respect of an offence under this
Act may be instituted at any time within one
year after the time when the subject-matter
of the proceedings arose. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 9.
JQ. A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 10.

## PART II

## COMPENSATION APPEALS
Assessor
1 1. (1) The Governor in Council may,
from among the judges of the Exchequer
Court of Canada and the superior courts of
the provinces, appoint an Assessor and such
number of Deputy Assessors as he considers
necessary to hear and determine appeals from
compensation awards made under this Act or
under any other Act to which this Part is
made applicable, and, subject to this Act,
prescribe their jurisdiction.
(2) The Governor in Council may appoint
among the judges referred to in
(1) an acting assessor to act in the
of the Assessor in the event of his
or incapacity.
(3) The Assessor may designate a Deputy
to hear and determine any appeal
this Part.
(4) In sections 13 and 14 the term "Assessor"
includes a Deputy Assessor. 1968-69, c. 34, s.

**11.**

**12.** (1) An appeal may be brought to the
Assessor by a farmer referred to in subsection
3(1) where the compensation awarded to the
farmer is less than the maximum compensation
prescribed under this Act or where no
compensation is awarded to such a farmer, on
the ground that the amount of compensation
awarded or the failure to award compensation
was unreasonable.
(2) Every appeal to the Assessor shall be
brought within three months from the date
the farmer receives notification of the decision
or the compensation that is the subject of the
appeal or within such longer period as the
Assessor may in any case for special reasons
allow. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 12.

**13.** (1) Upon the hearing of an appeal
brought pursuant to this Part, the Assessor
may
  * (_a_) confirm the decision of the Minister,
(6) subject to any maximum amount of
compensation prescribed pursuant to this
Act and applicable to the loss in respect of
which the appeal is brought, vary the
decision of the Minister, or
  * (_c_) refer the matter back to the Minister for
such further action as the Assessor may
direct.
(2) In any proceedings under this Part costs
may be awarded to or against the Minister.
(3) The decision of the Assessor on any
appeal brought pursuant to this Part is final
and conclusive and not subject to appeal to
or review by any court. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Assessor may sit and hear
appeals at any place or places, and shall
arrange for sittings and hearings as may be
required.
(2) The Assessor is entitled to be paid
travelling allowances as for attendances as
judge of the Exchequer Court under the
Judges Act. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 14.

**15.** Subject to the approval of the Governor
in Council, the Assessor may make such rules
respecting the conduct of appeals and the
procedure for the bringing of appeals as he
deems necessary to enable him to discharge
his duties under this Act. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 15.

**16.** The Governor in Council may appoint
a registrar of appeals and such other persons
as he considers necessary to carry out the
purposes of this Part. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 16.

## COMING INTO FORCE

**17.** This Act or any Part thereof comes
into force on a day or days to be fixed by
proclamation. 1968-69, c. 34, s. 17.
