Right Act. R.S., c. 210, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Court" means the Exchequer Court of
Canada ;
"judge" means a judge of the Court ;
"relief" includes every species of relief claimed
or prayed for in a petition of right, whether
a restitution of any incorporeal right or a
return of lands or chattels, or payment of
money, or damages, or otherwise. R.S., c.
210, s. 2.

**3.** A petition of right may be addressed to
Her Majesty to the effect of Form A in the
schedule. R.S., c. 210, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The original and two copies of the
petition, with an endorsement thereon to the
effect of Form B in the schedule, shall be
filed in the Exchequer Court of Canada,
which Court has exclusive original cognizance
of petitions of right.
(2) The sum of two dollars shall be paid to
the Registrar of the Court as a fee on the
filing of the petition.
(3) xh e original and two copies of the
petition may be filed as required by subsection
(1) by being forwarded, together with a
remittance for the filing fee, by registered
and prepaid mail addressed to "The Registrar,
The Exchequer Court of Canada, Ottawa".
R.S., c. 210, s. 4.

**5.** (1) When the original and two copies of
a petition have been filed and the filing fee
has been paid, as required by section 4, the
Registrar of the Court shall, after verifying
the accuracy of the copies, forthwith, on
behalf of the suppliant, serve the petition on
Her Majesty by transmitting the copies to the
office of the Deputy Attorney General of
Canada.
(2) When the copies have been transmitted
to the office of the Deputy Attorney General
of Canada under subsection (1), a certificate
signed by or on behalf of the Registrar as to
the date of filing and the date of transmission
of the copies shall be delivered, or forwarded
by registered and prepaid mail, to the
suppliant or thesuppliant s counsel orsolicitor
at the address appearing on the petition of
right or such other address as may have been
communicated to the Registrar for the
purpose.
(3) A certificate under subsection (2) is
evidence of the date of filing and the date of
service of the petition of right referred to in
the certificate.
(4) A suppliant is not required to have an
address for service in Ottawa and the judges
of the Court shall make such general rules
and orders as they consider advisable to
permit service of pleadings, notices and other
documents in petition of right proceedings by
registered mail instead of personal service.
R.S..C. 210, s. 5.

**6.** There shall be no preliminary inquisition
finding the truth of the petition, or the right
of the suppliant, but the statement in defence
or demurrer, or both, shall be filed within
four weeks after service of the petition, or
such further time as is allowed by the Court.
R.S., c. 210, s. 6.

**7.** (1) If the petition is presented for the
recovery of real or personal property or an
interest in real or personal property and the
property has been granted away or otherwise
disposed of by or on behalf of Her Majesty, a
copy of the petition, endorsed with a notice
to the effect of Form C in the schedule, shall
be served upon or left at the last or usual or
latest known place of abode of the person in
the possession or occupation of such property
right.
(2) It is not necessary to issue any scire
or other process to such person for the
purpose of requiring him to file his statement
in defence, but, if he intends to contest the
petition, he shall, within four weeks after such
copy has been so served or left, or within such
further time as is allowed by the Court, file
his statement of defence or demurrer, or both.
R.S., c. 210, s. 7.

**8.** The statement of defence or demurrer
may raise, besides any legal or equitable
defences in fact or in law available under this
Act, any legal or equitable defences that
would have been available if the proceeding
had been a suit or action in a competent court
between subject and subject ; and any grounds
of defence that would be sufficient on behalf
of Her Majesty may be alleged on behalf of
any such person as aforesaid. R.S., 210, s. 8.

**9.** In case of default on behalf of Her
Majesty or of such other person as aforesaid
to file a statement in defence or demurrer in
due time, the suppliant may apply to the
Court for an order that the petition may be
taken as confessed ; and the Court may, on
being satisfied that there has been such
failure, order that the petition be taken as
confessed as against Her Majesty, or such
other person, and thereupon the suppliant
may obtain judgment, but such judgment
may afterwards be set aside by the Court, in
its discretion, upon such terms as to the Court
seems fit. R.S., c. 210, s. 9.

**10.** The judgment on every petition of
right shall be that the suppliant is not entitled
to any portion, or that he is entitled to the
whole or to some specified portion of the
relief sought by his petition, or to such other
relief, and upon such terms and conditions, if
any, as are just. R.S., c. 210, s. 10.

**11.** In all cases in which the judgment
commonly called a judgment of amoveas
manus was formerly given in England upon a
petition of right, a judgment that the
suppliant is entitled to relief, as herein
provided, is of the same effect as such
of amoveas manus. R.S., c. 210, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Upon any petition of right, the
suppliant is entitled to costs against Her
Majesty, and also against any other person
appearing or pleading, or answering to any
such petition of right, in like manner and
subject to the same rules, regulations and
provisions, restrictions and discretion, so far
as they are applicable, as are or may be
usually adopted or in force in respect to the
right to recover costs in proceedings between
subject and subject.
(2) For the recovery of any such costs from
any person other than Her Majesty, appearing
or pleading, or answering, in pursuance hereof,
to any petition of right, such and the same
remedies and writs of execution as are
authorized for enforcing payment of costs
upon rules, orders, decrees or judgments, in
personal actions between subject and subject,
shall and may be prosecuted, sued out and
executed on behalf of such suppliant. R.S., c.
210, s. 12.

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
PETITION OF RIGHT
In the Exchequer Court of Canada.
To the Queen s Most Excellent Majesty.
County (or district) of (place proposed for trial) to wit:
The humble petition of A. B. of , showeth that
(state with convenient certainty the facts on which petitioner
relies as entitling him to relief).
Conclusion
Your suppliant therefore humbly prays that (state the relief
claimed).
Dated the day of A.D. 19
(Signed) A.B.
or C.D., Counsel for A.B.

## FORM B
The suppliant prays for a statement in defence on behalf of
Her Majesty, within four weeks after the date of service hereof,
or otherwise that the petition may be taken as confessed.

## FORM C
To A.B.:
You are hereby required to file a statement in defence to the
within petition in Her Majesty s Exchequer Court of Canada,
within four weeks after the date of service hereof.
Take notice, that if you fail to file a statement in defence or
demurrer in due time, the said petition may, as against you, be
ordered to be taken as confessed.
Dated the day of A.D. 19 .
R.S., c.210, Sch.
