
## CHAPTER P- 17
An Act to provide for the rehabilitation of
drought and soil drifting areas in the
Provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Alberta

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Prairie
Farm Rehabilitation Act. R.S., c. 214, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Regional Economic Expansion.
R.S., c. 214, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 102.

**3.** (1) The Governor in Council may estab
lish one or more advisory committees to be
known as Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Com
mittees, the members of which hold office
during pleasure.
(2) One of the members of each advisory
committee shall be appointed chairman
thereof by the Minister. R.S., c. 214, s. 3.

**4.** The advisory committees shall consider
and advise the Minister as to the best methods
to be adopted to secure the rehabilitation of
the drought and soil drifting areas in the
Provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and
Alberta, and to develop and promote within
these areas systems of farm practice, tree
culture, water supply, land utilization and
land settlement that will afford greater
economic security, and to make such represen
tations thereon to the Minister as the advisory
committees may deem expedient. R.S., c. 214,
s. 4.

**5.** No member of the advisory committees
shall receive any payment or emolument for
his services, but he shall be repaid all actual
reasonable travelling or other expenses in
connection with the work of the advisory
committees. R.S., c. 214, s. 5.

**6.** (1) All engineers, clerks and stenogra
phers required for the carrying out of this Act
shall be appointed in accordance with the
provisions of the Public Service Employment
Act.
(2) The Minister may appoint a Director of
Rehabilitation, an Associate Director of
Rehabilitation and all other officers and
employees required for the carrying out of
this Act, except those mentioned in subsection
(1), but the salaries and expenses of all persons
appointed by the Minister under this subsec
tion shall be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(3) A person who on the 30th day of June
1951 was employed under this Act and whose
position is declared by the Governor in
Council to be of continuing indeterminate
duration shall be deemed to be an employee
in the Public Service for the purposes of the
Public Sen ice Superannuation Act. R.S., c. 214,
s. 6.

**7.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations as may be necessary or
expedient for the effectual execution and
working of this Act and the attainment of the
intention and objects thereof. R.S., c. 214, s.

**7.**

**8.** For the purposes of this Act the Governor
in Council may from time to time authorize
the expenditure of sums not exceeding the
amount appropriated by Parliament in each
year for such purposes. R.S., c. 214, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The Minister may,
  * (_a_) subject to section 4, undertake the
development, construction, promotion,
operation and maintenance of any project
or scheme under or by virtue of this Act, or
enter into agreements with any province,
municipality or person with respect thereto ;
  * (_b_) pay all necessary administrative
expenses incurred under this Act and all
necessary travelling and living expenses
incurred by officials or employees in
performance of their duty.
(2) No single project or scheme under this
section involving an expenditure in excess of
fifteen thousand dollars in any fiscal year
shall be undertaken without the consent of
the Treasury Board. R.S., c. 214, s. 9; 1955, c.
39, s. 1.
1Q. The Minister shall annually lay before
Parliament a report of all proceedings under
this Act for the preceding fiscal year. R.S., c.
214, s. 12.
