Prairie grain prior to delivery thereof

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Prairie
Grain Advance Payments Act. 1957-58, c. 2,
s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"advance payment" means a payment for
grain made to a producer under the
authority of this Act ;
"amount in default" means the amount of an
advance payment made pursuant to an
undertaking, minus all amounts that up to
the time of default were paid to the Board
in discharge of the undertaking;
"application" means an application made by
a producer under this Act for an advance
payment ;
"Board" means The Canadian Wheat Board ;
"default" means failure, as described in
section 13, to comply with an undertaking ;
"general acreage quota" means any permission
given by the Board to deliver grain, either
under a permit book or otherwise, expressed
in terms of a number of bushels per specified
or seeded acre ;
"grain" means wheat, oats and barley that
was grown within the designated area, as
defined in the Canadian Wheat Board Act;
"initial payment" means the sum certain per
bushel payable under the Canadian Wheat
Board Act by the Board to a producer for
grain sold and delivered by him to the
Board ;
"permit book" means a delivery permit issued
by the Board pursuant to the Canadian
Wheat Board Act for a crop year ;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation;
"producer" includes, as well as an actual
producer, any person entitled as landlord,
vendor or mortgagee, to the grain grown by
an actual producer or to any share therein ;
"recipient" means a producer to whom an
advance payment has been made ;
"undertaking" means an undertaking given
by a producer under section 5;
"unit quota" means the initial quota pre
scribed by the Board for delivery of grain
under a permit book in a crop year.
(2) This Act shall be construed as one with
Canadian Wheat Board Act, and, unless a
contrary intention appears, all words and
expressions in this Act have the same meanings
as they have in the Canadian Wheat Board
Act. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 2; 1958, c. 16, s. 1.

## ADVANCE PAYMENTS
Authority to make Advance Payments

**3.** (1) Subject to this Act, the Board may
upon application therefor make a payment to
a producer in respect of a crop year, as an
advance on the initial payment for threshed
grain in storage otherwise than in an elevator,
prior to delivery thereof to the Board.
(2) Notwithstanding the Canada Grain Act,
the manager or operator of an elevator or
other person authorized by the Board to make
advance payments on its behalf may make
advance payments by means of cash purchase
tickets.
(3) No advance payment shall be made to
a producer in respect of a crop year, unless
the application therefor is made during the
crop year and before the 1st day of June in
that crop year, and is approved by the
or operator of an elevator or other
authorized by the Board to make
advance payments on its behalf.
(4) No person who has received an advance
payment under this Act in any crop year and
who is in default in respect thereof is, until
his undertaking in respect thereof has been
fully discharged, entitled to receive another
advance payment in the same or any
subsequent crop year. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 3.
Application

**4.** (1) An application for an advance pay
ment shall be made in prescribed form, shall
be signed by the producer and shall show
  * (_a_) the amount of the advance payment for
which application is made ;
(6) the kinds and quantities of threshed
grain in storage at the time of the
application and in respect of which the
applicant is applying for the advance
payment ;
  * (_c_) the number of the permit book under
which he is entitled to deliver grain ;
  * (_d_) whether he has received a previous
advance payment, and, if so, particulars
thereof and the amount of undelivered
grain in respect of which the previous
advance payment was made ;
  * (_e_) for the period from the beginning of the
crop year in which the application is made
to the time of the application, the kinds
and quantities of grain that have been
delivered by the applicant to the Board
under general acreage quotas and his unit
quota ; and
(/) such other particulars as are prescribed.
(2) An application shall be verified by
affidavit and shall include an authorization
by the applicant that one-half of the initial
payment for grain delivered to the Board
under the permit book specified in the
application or any permit book issued in
substitution or extension thereof, may be
deducted and paid to the Board until the
in prescribed form in favour of the Board to
the effect that
  * (_a_) as soon as any quota or other permission
given by the Board enables him to do so,
he will, in addition to any deliveries
described in subsection 11(2), deliver grain
to the Board until one-half of the initial
payment therefor is equal to the advance
payment made to him ; and
  * (_b_) upon default, he will repay to the Board
the amount in default, without interest
prior to default but with interest at six per
cent per annum after default.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a recipi
ent may at any time prior to default discharge
his obligation to deliver grain to the Board
or any part thereof by payment to the Board.
1957-58, c. 2, s. 5; 1958, c. 16, s. 3; 1968-69, c.
8,s.2.
Joint Producers

**6.** (1) Where two or more producers are
entitled to deliver grain under one permit
book, no advance payment shall be made
unless all such producers named in the permit
book jointly make the application and execute
the undertaking, and the advance payment
shall be made to all such producers jointly or
as they direct in the application.
(2) An application by two or more producers
may specify the shares of the advance
payment to be paid to each.
(3) Where an application by two or more
joint producers specifies the share of the
advance payment to be paid to each such
producer, and subsequently the undertaking
is in default, a joint producer who pays to the
Board an amount that is in the same
proportion to the amount in default as his
share of the advance payment is to the total
advance payment, together with interest
thereon at the rate of six per cent per annum
the default. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 6.
Amount of Advance Payment

**7.** (1) Subject to this section, the amount
of an advance payment to a producer in
respect of the grain deliverable under the
permit book specified in the application shall
be the quantity of threshed grain (irrespective
of its grade) that the applicant has in storage
otherwise than in an elevator and undertakes
to deliver to the Board, less any undelivered
grain in respect of which a previous advance
payment was made, multiplied by
  * (_a_) one dollar per bushel, in the case of
wheat ;
  * (_b_) forty cents per bushel, in the case of
oats ; and
  * (_c_) seventy cents per bushel in the case of
barley.
(2) The quantity of grain in respect of
which an advance payment may be made to
a producer shall not exceed the quantity that
would be deliverable under the applicant s
current permit book on a quota of six bushels
per specified acre minus the quantity of grain
delivered to the Board under general acreage
quotas and the unit quota by the applicant
prior to his application and during the crop
year in which the application is made.
(3) Not more than a total of six thousand
dollars shall be paid as advance payments in
respect of grain to be delivered under the
permit book specified in an application. 1958,
c. 16, s. 4; 1968-69, c. 8, s. 3.
Endorsement in Permit Book

**8.** (1) At the time an advance payment is
made to a producer he shall deliver to the
person who approves of his application on
behalf of the Board the permit book described
in his application and an endorsement shall
be made therein in prescribed form to the
effect that one-half of the initial payment for
all grain delivered under that permit book
shall be deducted and paid to the Board until
the producer has discharged his undertaking.
(2) Where an advance payment is made to
a producer and the permit book described in
his application bears an endorsement for an
advance payment received by him in a
previous crop year in respect of which he has
not fully discharged his undertaking but is
not in default, that endorsement shall be
amended by adding thereto the amount of
the new advance payment.
(3) Where endorsements are consolidated as
described in subsection (2), the Board shall
apply moneys which it receives in respect of
the undertakings of the recipient toward the
discharge of such undertakings in the order
in which they were given. 1958, c. 16, s. 5;
1968-69, c. 8, s. 4.
Powers of Board

**9.** (1) For the purpose of making advance
payments the Board may borrow money, and
the Minister of Finance may, on behalf of
Her Majesty, guarantee, on such terms and
conditions as the Governor in Council may
approve, repayment of money so borrowed
and interest thereon.
(2) The Board may make such arrangements
and enter into such contracts or agreements
as the Board considers necessary or advisable
for the administration of this Act. 1957-58, c.
2, s. 9.
Lien for Advance Payments
jo. Where the Board has made an advance
payment to a producer, the Board has a lien
for the amount thereof on the grain in respect
of which the advance payment was made.
1957-58, c. 2, s. 10.

## DELIVERIES OF GRAIN

**11.** (1) Where a delivery of grain is made
under a permit book bearing an endorsement
under section 8 by any producer named in
the permit book, the manager or operator of
an elevator or other person receiving delivery
of the grain for the Board shall deduct and
pay to the Board, in priority to all other
the endorsement was made has been
and shall make an appropriate
of the deduction in the permit book.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), no
deduction shall be made in respect of grain
delivered by a producer under any permission
given by the Board authorizing delivery of
grain in order to obtain seed.
(3) The Board may recover any of the
moneys to which it is entitled under subsection
(1) by action or proceedings against the person
receiving delivery of the grain as if the grain
were delivered and sold on behalf of the
Board, and any such moneys received by the
Board shall be deemed to be a repayment to
the Board on account of the advance payment.
(4) When the recipient of an advance has
discharged his undertaking, the Board shall
cancel the endorsement in his permit book by
an appropriate entry therein. 1957-58, c. 2, s.
11; 1958, c. 16, s. 6; 1968-69, c. 8, s. 5.

**12.** Notwithstanding any other Act or law,
where the permit book of the recipient has
been endorsed as required by section 8, he is
not, until he has discharged his undertaking,
entitled to receive or use another permit book
in substitution for that permit book for the
same or any subsequent crop year unless an
endorsement to the same effect is made
therein. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 12.

## DEFAULT IN UNDERTAKING

**13.** (1) For the purposes of this Act, a
recipient shall be deemed to be in default if
his undertaking has not been discharged
  * (_a_) within ten days after the date on which
the Board mails or delivers or causes to be
mailed or delivered a written notice to him
stating that he has, in the opinion of the
Board, had adequate opportunity to dis
charge his undertaking or has, otherwise
than by delivery to the Board, disposed of
all or part of the grain in respect of which
the advance was made, and requesting him
grain to the Board or otherwise ;
(6) before the 15th day of September in the
new crop year immediately following the
crop year in which the advance payment
was made, and he has not applied for a
permit book for such new crop year in
substitution for the permit book specified
in his application; or
  * (_c_) before the 31st day of December in the
new crop year immediately following the
crop year in which the advance payment
was made, or such later date as the Board
may authorize in special cases.
(2) The Board may for any cause it deems
sufficient waive any default for a specified
period, and where a default is waived it shall,
for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to
have occurred at the expiration of such period.
1957-58, c. 2, s. 13.

**14.** Where a producer is in default, all
proceedings against him to enforce his
undertaking may be taken in the name of the
Board or in the name of Her Majesty. 1957-
58, c. 2, s. 14.

**15.** As soon as practicable after receiving
requests therefor from the Board, the Minister
of Finance shall out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund pay to the Board
  * (_a_) interest charges paid or payable by the
Board with respect to money borrowed by
it or advanced on its behalf for the purposes
of this Act, and
  * (_b_) amounts of advance payments outstand
ing at the time of default, to the extent
that the Board has not been reimbursed
therefor after default. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 15.

**16.** (1) Where a recipient has defaulted in
his undertaking, the Board may, in addition
to any other right or remedy under this Act,
and notwithstanding the Canadian Wheat
Board Act, withhold, out of the moneys that
may at any time thereafter (other than at the
(2) An amount withheld by the Board
under subsection (1) shall be credited to the
in reduction of the amount in
default and is a discharge of the liability of
the Board under the Canadian Wheat Board
Act to pay him that amount. 1957-58, c. 2,
s. 16.

**17.** Where the Board has received payment
from the Minister of Finance in respect of an
amount in default, and subsequently all or
any part of the amount in default is recovered,
the amount recovered shall be paid to the
Minister of Finance, and the Minister of
Finance may pay to the Board such portion
thereof as is required to enable the Board to
reimburse any manager or operator of an
elevator or other person authorized by the
Board to make advance payments on its
behalf for any share of the loss sustained by
him by reason of the default. 1957-58, c. 2,
s. 17.

## GENERAL

**18.** (1) Where an applicant for an advance
payment is indebted to a bank in respect of a
guaranteed loan obtained by him under the
Prairie Grain Producers Interim Financing Act,
1956, the unpaid balance of the guaranteed
loan, together with any interest or other
charges owing thereunder, owing to the bank
shall be deducted from the advance payment
and paid to the bank, and the bank shall
cancel any endorsement in the permit book
made under that Act.
(2) Where under the Act referred to in
subsection (1) or the Prairie Grain Producers
Interim Financing Act, 1951, a bank has been
paid by the Minister of Finance or the Board
withholds any moneys for the Minister in
respect of a guaranteed loan, the moneys
recovered from a borrower by the bank or by
the Board shall be paid by each of them,
respectively, to the Minister. 1957-58, c. 2,
s. 18.

**19.** (1) All expenditures made by the Board
in the administration of this Act, other than
those reimbursed to the Board by the Minister
of Finance under section 15, shall be deemed
to be expenses of the Board within the
meaning of section 26 of the Canadian Wheat
Board Act.
(2) The Governor in Council may, by order,
direct that the expenditures referred to in
subsection (1) or such portion of them as he
deems advisable shall be paid out of the
separate account referred to in section 30 of
the Canadian Wheat Board Act. 1957-58, c. 2,
s. 19.

**20.** (1) Every person who,
  * (_a_) knowingly makes any misrepresentation
in any application, or, for the purpose of
obtaining an advance payment or evading
compliance with his undertaking, wilfully
furnishes to the Board any false or
misleading information, or
  * (_b_) being a recipient whose undertaking has
not been discharged, delivers grain, or
causes any other person to deliver grain on
his behalf, under a permit book that has
not been endorsed as required by this Act,
is guilty of an offence and is liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding six months, or to both.
(2) A prosecution under subsection (1) may
be instituted at any time within two years
from the time when the subject-matter of the
complaint arose. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 20.
2 1. The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the forms of applications,
directions, endorsements, reports or other
documents to be used in connection with
advance payments or for the effective
operation of this Act ;
  * (_b_) prescribing the steps to be taken to
effect collection of any amount in default
in connection with advance payments;
  * (_c_) requiring reports to be made to or by
the Board in connection with advance
payments; and
  * (_d_) prescribing anything that is to be
prescribed under this Act and, generally,
for carrying the purposes and provisions of
this Act into effect. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 21.

**22.** The Board shall include in the annual
report required to be made by it under the
Canadian Wheat Board Act a report on the
operation and administration of this Act for
the calendar year immediately preceding the
date on which the annual report is made, or
for such other period as the Governor in
Council prescribes. 1957-58, c. 2, s. 22.

**23.** Notwithstanding section 11 of the
Prairie Farm Assistance Act, no levy under
that Act shall be deducted from an advance
payment, but for the purposes of that Act
there shall be deducted from that portion of
the initial payment payable to the recipient
at the time of sale and delivery of grain to
the Board a levy of two per cent of that
portion of the initial payment until the
recipient has discharged his undertaking
under this Act. 1958, c. 16, s. 7.
