
# CHAPTER P-2
An Act to provide for the conditional
liberation of persons undergoing sentences
of imprisonment

## SHORT TITLE
1, This Act may be cited as the Parole Act.
1958, c. 38, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the National Parole Board
established by this Act ;
"day parole" means parole the terms and
conditions of which require the inmate to
whom it is granted to return to prison from
time to time during the duration of such
parole or to return to prison after a specified
period;
"inmate" means a person who is under a
sentence of imprisonment imposed pursuant
to an Act of the Parliament of Canada or
imposed for criminal contempt of court, but
does not include a child within the meaning
of the Juvenile Delinquents Act who is under
sentence of imprisonment for an offence
known as a delinquency;
"magistrate" means a justice or a magistrate
as defined in the Criminal Code;
"parole" means authority granted under this
Act to an inmate to be at large during his
term of imprisonment ;
"parole supervisor" means a person charged
with the guidance and supervision of a
paroled inmate or of an inmate who is
subject to mandatory supervision;
"paroled inmate" means a person to whom
parole has been granted. 1958, c. 38, s. 2;
1968-69, c. 38, s. 94.

## BOARD ESTABLISHED

**3.** (1) There shall be a board, to be known
as the National Parole Board, consisting of
not less than three and not more than nine
members to be appointed by the Governor in
Council to hold office during good behaviour
for a period not exceeding ten years.
(2) The Governor in Council shall designate
one of the members to be Chairman and one
to be Vice-Chairman.
(3) The Governor in Council may appoint
a temporary substitute member to act as a
member in the event that a member is absent
or unable to act.
(4) A majority of the members constitutes
a quorum, and a vacancy on the Board does
not impair the right of the remaining members
to act.
(5) Each member of the Board has one vote
in respect of each matter within the duties
and functions of the Board and if the number
of votes in respect of any such matter is
equally divided, the Chairman has an addi
tional vote.
(6) The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, make rules for the
conduct of its proceedings and the perform
ance of its duties and functions under this
Act.
(7) The head office of the Board shall be
at Ottawa, but meetings of the Board may be
held at such other places as the Board
determines.
(8) The Board shall have an official seal.
1958, c. 38, s. 3; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 95.

**4.** (1) Each member of the Board shall be
paid such remuneration for his services as is
fixed by the Governor in Council, and is
entitled to be paid reasonable travelling and
living expenses incurred by him while absent
from his ordinary place of residence in the
course of his duties.
(2) The officers, clerks and employees
necessary for the proper conduct of the
business of the Board shall be appointed in
accordance with the Public Service Employment
Act.
(3) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Board and has supervision over
and direction of the work and the staff of the
Board. 1958, c. 38, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Chairman may from time to
time establish divisions of the Board, each
consisting of two or more members of the
Board, and may direct any such division to
carry out at such times and places as are
specified by him, such of the duties and
functions of the Board specified by him as
are authorized by rules made by the Board
under subsection 3(6) to be carried out by a
division of the Board ; and in carrying out
such duties and functions, a division of the
Board may exercise all of the powers conferred
on the Board by this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, any act or
thing done by a division of the Board in
accordance with a direction by the Chairman
made pursuant to subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be an act or thing done by the
Board.
(3) A division of the Board may, with the
consent of the Chairman, and shall upon the
direction of the Chairman, refer any matter
that is before it to the full Board and
thereupon the full Board shall deal with such
matter in accordance with this Act. 1968-69, c.
38, s. 96.

## POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD

**6.** Subject to this Act and the Prisons and
Reformatories Act, the Board has exclusive
jurisdiction and absolute discretion to grant,
refuse to grant or revoke parole. 1958, c. 38,
s. 5.

**7.** (1) Where, in the case of a person
sentenced to a term of imprisonment in
respect of which the Board has exclusive
jurisdiction to grant, refuse to grant or revoke
parole, that person is at the time of such
sentence or at any time during such term of
imprisonment sentenced to a term of impris
onment imposed under an enactment of a
provincial legislature that is to be served
either concurrently with or immediately after
the expiration of the term of imprisonment
in respect of which the Board has exclusive
jurisdiction, the Board has, subject to this
Act, exclusive jurisdiction and absolute dis
cretion to grant, refuse to grant or revoke
parole in relation to both such terms of
imprisonment.
(2) This section shall come into force in
respect of any province on a day to be fixed
by proclamation made after the passing of an
Act by the legislature of the province named
in the proclamation authorizing the Board to
exercise the additional jurisdiction described
in subsection (1). 1968-69, c. 38, s. 97.
g. (1) The Board shall at the times pre
scribed by the regulations
  * (_a_) review the case of every inmate who is
sentenced to imprisonment in or transferred
to a penitentiary for two years or more,
other than the case of any such inmate who
advises the Board in writing that he does
not wish to be granted parole by the Board,
and who has not, in writing, revoked such
advice ; and
(6) review such cases of inmates serving a
sentence of imprisonment of less than two
years as are prescribed by the regulations,
upon application by or on behalf of the
inmate.
(2) Upon reviewing the case of an inmate
as required by subsection (1) the Board shall
decide whether or not to grant parole. 1958, c.
38, s. 6; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 98.

**9.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations prescribing
  * (_a_) the portion of the terms of imprisonment
that inmates shall serve before parole may
be granted ;
(6) the times when the Board shall review
cases of inmates serving sentences of
imprisonment ;
  * (_c_) the class of cases of inmates serving a
sentence of imprisonment of less than two
years that shall be reviewed by the Board
upon application ;
  * (_d_) the procedure to be followed by the
Board on receipt of an application for
revocation or suspension of an order made
under the Criminal Code prohibiting any
person from operating a motor vehicle, and
authorizing the Board to impose terms or
conditions in respect of the revocation or
suspension of any such order ; and
  * (_e_) such other matters as he deems necessary
for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
1958, c. 38, s. 7; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 99.
io. (1) The Board may
  * (_a_) grant parole to an inmate, subject to
any terms or conditions it considers desira
ble, if the Board considers that
  * (_i_) in the case of a grant of parole other
than day parole, the inmate has derived
the maximum benefit from imprisonment,
  * (_ii_) the reform and rehabilitation of the
inmate will be aided by the grant of
parole, and
  * (_iii_) the release of the inmate on parole
would not constitute an undue risk to
society ;
(6) impose any terms and conditions that it
considers desirable in respect of an inmate
who is subject to mandatory supervision ;
  * (_c_) provide for the guidance and supervision
of paroled inmates for such period as the
Board considers desirable ;
  * (_d_) grant discharge from parole to any
paroled inmate, except an inmate on day
parole or a paroled inmate who was
sentenced to death or to imprisonment for
life as a minimum punishment ; and
  * (_e_) in its discretion, revoke the parole of
any paroled inmate other than a paroled
inmate to whom discharge from parole has
been granted, or revoke the parole of any
person who is in custody pursuant to a
warrant issued under section 16 notwith
standing that his sentence has expired.
(2) The Board, or any person designated
by the Board, may, in its or his discretion,
terminate the day parole of any paroled
inmate. 1958, c. 38, s. 8; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 100.

**11.** The Board, in considering whether
parole should be granted or revoked, is not
required to grant a personal interview to the
inmate or to any person on his behalf. 1958,
c. 38, s. 9.

**12.** Where
  * (_a_) the Board grants parole to an inmate,
or
(6) an inmate is released from imprisonment
subject to mandatory supervision,
the Board shall issue a parole certificate or
mandatory supervision certificate under the
seal of the Board and in a form prescribed by
it, and shall cause the certificate to be
delivered to the inmate and a copy thereof to
be delivered to the inmate s parole supervisor,
if any. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 101.

**13.** (j) T ne term of imprisonment of a
paroled inmate shall, while the parole remains
unrevoked and unforfeited, be deemed to
continue in force until the expiration thereof
according to law, and, in the case of day
parole, the paroled inmate shall be deemed
to be continuing to serve his term of
imprisonment in the place of confinement
from which he was released on such parole.
(2) Until a parole is revoked, forfeited or
suspended, or except in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a day parole, the
inmate is not liable to be imprisoned by
reason of his sentence, and he shall be allowed
to go and remain at large according to the
terms and conditions of the parole and subject
the provisions of this Act. 1968-69, c. 38, s.

**101.**

**14.** Where, either before, on or after the
day of August 1969,
  * (_a_) a person is sentenced to two or more
terms of imprisonment, or
(6) an inmate who is in confinement is
sentenced to an additional term or terms of
imprisonment,
he shall, for all purposes of this Act, the
Penitentiary Act and the Prisons and Reform
atories Act, be deemed to have been sentenced,
on the day on which he is so sentenced in the
circumstances described in paragraph (a), or
on the day on which he was sentenced to the
term of imprisonment he is then serving in
the circumstances described in paragraph (6),
to a single term of imprisonment commencing
on that day and ending on the last day that
he would be subject to confinement under the
longest of such sentences or under all of such
sentences that are to be served one after the
other, whichever is the later day. 1968-69, c.
38, s. 101.

**15.** (1) Where an inmate to whom parole
was not granted is released from imprison
ment, prior to the expiration of his sentence
according to law, as a result of remission,
including earned remission, and the term of
such remission exceeds sixty days, he shall,
notwithstanding any other Act, be subject to
mandatory supervision commencing upon his
release and continuing for the duration of
such remission.
(2) Paragraph 10(l)(e), section 11, section 13
and sections 16 to 21 apply to an inmate who
is subject to mandatory supervision as though
he were a paroled inmate on parole and as
though the terms and conditions of his
mandatory supervision were terms and condi
tions of his parole. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 101.

## SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PAROLE

**16.** (1) A member of the Board or any
person designated by the Board may, by a
warrant in writing signed by him, suspend
any parole, other than a parole that has been
discharged, and authorize the apprehension
of a paroled inmate whenever he is satisfied
that the arrest of the inmate is necessary or
desirable in order to prevent a breach of any
term or condition of the parole or for the
rehabilitation of the inmate or the protection
of society.
(2) A paroled inmate apprehended under a
warrant issued under this section shall be
brought as soon as conveniently may be before
a magistrate, and the magistrate shall remand
the inmate in custody until the suspension of
his parole is cancelled or his parole is revoked
or forfeited.
(3) The person by whom a warrant is signed
pursuant to subsection (1) or any other person
designated by the Board for the purpose shall
forthwith after a remand by a magistrate of
the paroled inmate named therein review the
case and, within fourteen days from the time
of such remand, either cancel the suspension
of his parole or refer the case to the Board.
(4) The Board shall, upon the referral to it
of the case of a paroled inmate whose parole
has been suspended, review the case and cause
to be conducted all such inquiries in connection
therewith as it considers necessary, and
forthwith upon completion of such inquiries
and its review it shall either cancel the
suspension or revoke the parole.
(5) An inmate who is in custody by virtue
of this section shall be deemed to be serving
his sentence. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 101.

## FORFEITURE OF PAROLE

**17.** (i) Where a person who is, or at any
time was, a paroled inmate is convicted of an
indictable offence, punishable by imprison
ment for a term of two years or more,
committed after the grant of parole to him
and before his discharge therefrom or the
of his sentence, his parole is thereby
and such forfeiture shall be deemed
have taken place on the day on which the
was committed.
(2) Where an appeal is taken against a
conviction that resulted in forfeiture of parole
pursuant to subsection (1), the forfeiture is
stayed pending the final disposition of the
appeal. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 101.

## APPREHENSION UPON REVOCATION OR

## FORFEITURE OF PAROLE
ig. (1) If any parole is revoked or forfeited,
the Board or any person designated by the
Board may, by a warrant in writing, authorize
the apprehension of the paroled inmate.
(2) A paroled inmate apprehended under a
warrant issued under this section, shall be
brought as soon as conveniently may be before
a magistrate, and the magistrate shall there
upon make out his warrant under his hand
and seal for the recommitment of the inmate
as provided in this Act. 1958, c. 38, s. 14 ; 1968-
69, c. 38, s. 101.

**19.** A warrant issued under section 16 or 18
shall be executed by any peace officer to
whom it is given in any part of Canada, and
has the same force and effect in all parts of
Canada as if it had been originally issued or
subsequently endorsed by a magistrate or
other lawful authority having jurisdiction in
the place where it is executed. 1958, c. 38,
s. 15.

**20.** (1) Where the parole granted to an
inmate has been revoked, he shall be
recommitted to the place of confinement from
which he was allowed to go and remain at
large at the time parole was granted to him,
to serve the portion of his term of imprison
ment that remained unexpired at the time
parole was granted to him, including any
period of remission, including earned remis
sion, then standing to his credit, less any time
in custody as a result of a suspension of
his parole.
(2) Where a paroled inmate, upon revoca
tion of his parole, is apprehended at a place
not within the territorial division in which
the place of confinement from which he was
allowed to go and remain at large at the time
parole was granted to him is situated, he shall
be committed to the corresponding place of
confinement for the territorial division within
which he was apprehended, to serve the
portion of his term of imprisonment that
remained unexpired at the time parole was
granted to him, including any period of
remission, including earned remission, then
standing to his credit, less any time spent in
custody as a result of a suspension of his
parole. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 102.

**21.** (1) When any parole is forfeited by
conviction for an indictable offence, the
paroled inmate shall undergo a term of
imprisonment , commencing when the sentence
for the indictable offence is imposed, equal to
the aggregate of
  * (_a_) the portion of the term to which he was
sentenced that remained unexpired at the
time his parole was granted, including any
period of remission, including earned remis
sion, then standing to his credit, and
(6) the term, if any, to which he is sentenced
upon conviction for the indictable offence,
minus
  * (_c_) any time he spent in custody after
conviction for the indictable offence, and
before the sentence was imposed.
(2) The term of imprisonment prescribed
by subsection (1) shall be served as follows :
  * (_a_) in a penitentiary, if the place of
confinement from which he was allowed to
go and remain at large at the time parole
was granted to him was a penitentiary ;
  * (_b_) in a penitentiary, if the total term of
imprisonment prescribed by subsection (1)
is for a period of two years or more ; and
  * (_c_) if the place of confinement from which
he was allowed to go and remain at large
at the time parole was granted to him was
not a penitentiary and the term of
imprisonment prescribed by subsection (1)
is less than two years, in that place of
confinement or, where the place of his
conviction is not within the territorial
division in which that place of confinement
is situated, in the corresponding place of
confinement for the territorial division
within which he was so convicted. 1968-69,
c. 38, s. 103.
ADDITIONAL JURISDICTION

**22.** (1) The Board may, upon application
therefor and subject to regulations, revoke or
suspend any sentence of whipping or any
order made under the Criminal Code prohib
iting any person from operating a motor
vehicle.
(2) The Board shall, when so directed by
the Solicitor General of Canada, make any
investigation or inquiry desired by the
Solicitor General in connection with any
request made to the Solicitor General for the
exercise of the royal prerogative of mercy.
1958, c. 38, s. 18; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

## MISCELLANEOUS

**23.** An order, warrant or decision made or
issued under this Act is not subject to appeal
or review to or by any court or other authority.
1958, c. 38, s. 19.

**24.** Any order, decision, certificate or
warrant purporting to be sealed with the seal
of the Board or to be signed by a person
purporting to be a member of the Board or to
have been designated by the Board to suspend
parole or to authorize the apprehension of an
inmate whose parole has been revoked or
forfeited is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings in any court and is evidence of
the statements contained therein without
proof of the seal of the Board or of the
or the official character of the
appearing to have signed the same.
1968-69, c. 38, s. 104.

**25.** All expenditures under or for the
purposes of this Act shall be paid out of
money appropriated by Parliament therefor.
1958, c. 38,8.21.

**26.** The members and staff of the Board
shall be deemed to be employed in the Public
Service for the purpose of the Public Service
Superannuation Act. 1958, c. 38, s. 22.

**27.** (1) Every person who on the loth day
of February 1959 was the holder of a licence
to be at large issued under the Ticket of Leave
Act, chapter 264 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1952, shall be deemed to have been
granted parole under this Act under the same
terms and conditions as those under which
the licence was issued or such further or other
conditions as the Board may prescribe.
(2) Every person who was issued a licence
to be at large under the Ticket of Leave Act,
whose licence was revoked or forfeited and
who on the 15th day of February 1959 was
unlawfully at large may be dealt with under
this Act as though he were a paroled inmate
whose parole had been revoked or forfeited.
(3) A reference in any Act, regulation or
document to a conditional liberation or ticket
of leave under the Ticket of Leave Act shall
be deemed to be a reference to parole granted
under this Act. 1958, c. 38, s. 24.
