
# CHAPTER P-21
Act respecting public and reformatory
prisons

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Prisons and
Reformatories Act. R.S., c. 217, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"court" includes a police or stipendiary
magistrate, but, except as otherwise defined
in this Act, does not include one or more
justices of the peace ;
"Lieutenant Governor" means the Lieutenant
Governor in Council ;
"refuge" means any institution for the care
of the young or of adult females to which
they may by law be sentenced by a court ;
"superintendent" includes the matron, supe
rior or other head or person in charge of
any refuge. R.S., c. 217, s. 2.

## PARTI

## GENERAL
Insecure Prisons

**3.** The Governor in Council or the Lieu
tenant Governor of the province may, if, from
the insecurity or unfitness of any gaol of any
county or district for the safe custody of
prisoners or for any other cause, he deems it
to do so, order any person charged
an indictable offence confined in such
gaol, or for whose arrest a warrant has been
issued, to be removed to any other place for
safe keeping, or to any gaol, which place or
gaol shall be named in such order, there to be
detained until discharged in due course of
law, or removed for the purpose of trial to the
gaol of the county or district in which the
trial is to take place. R.S., c. 217, s. 3.

**4.** A copy of such order, certified by the
clerk of the Queen s Privy Council for Canada,
or the clerk of the executive council, or by
any person acting as such clerk of the Privy
Council or executive council, is sufficient
authority to the sheriffs and gaolers of the
counties or districts respectively named in
such order to deliver over and to receive the
person named in such order. R.S., c. 217, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council or a
Lieutenant Governor may, in any such order,
direct the sheriff in whose custody the person
to be removed then is, to convey that person
to the place or gaol in which he is to be
confined, and in case of removal to another
county or district shall direct the sheriff or
gaoler of such county or district to receive
that person, and to detain him until he is
discharged in due course of law, or is removed
for the purpose of trial to any other county
or district.
(2) The Governor in Council or a Lieutenant
Governor may make an order, as hereinbefore
provided, in respect of any person under
sentence of imprisonment or under sentence
of death.
(3) If such an order is made in respect of a
person under sentence of death, the sheriff to
whose gaol the prisoner is removed shall obey
any direction given by the order or by any
subsequent order in council, for the return of
the prisoner to the custody of the sheriff by
whom the sentence is to be executed. R.S., c.
217, s. 5.

**6.** The Lieutenant Governor of any prov
ince may, by proclamation published in the
official gazette of the province and in the
Canada Gazette, declare that the common
gaol of any district, county or place in such
province is insecure, and may name the gaol
gaol to which offenders within such first
district, county or place, may,
from and after a time stated, be committed
sentenced. R.S., c. 217, s. 6.

**7.** (i) The Lieutenant Governor may, after
the issue of such proclamation, from time to
time direct the sheriff to transfer such of the
prisoners then confined in such insecure gaol,
as the Lieutenant Governor thinks proper, to
the gaol so named, as aforesaid.
(2) Such order is a sufficient authority to
the respective sheriffs and officers to deliver
and receive, and to the keeper of such last-
mentioned gaol to detain therein, any such
prisoner according to the exigency of the
warrant or sentence under which he was
confined in such insecure gaol. R.S., c. 217,
s. 7.

**8.** (1) During the continuance in force of
such proclamation any person who would
otherwise be committed to or sentenced to
imprisonment in the common gaol so declared
insecure, shall be committed to or sentenced
to imprisonment in the gaol named in the
proclamation for that purpose, and the
respective sheriffs and officers have authority
to deliver and receive such person.
(2) A warrant directed to the gaoler of the
insecure gaol is a sufficient authority for the
gaoler of the gaol named in such proclamation
to detain therein the person named in such
warrant, according to the exigency of the
warrant, or until he is removed, as hereinafter
provided. R.S., c. 217, s. 8.

**9.** (\) Every person so confined in the gaol
named in such proclamation, may be tried in
the district, county or place in the gaol
whereof he is confined, unless the judge or
other person presiding at the court at which
it is proposed to try such person, or a judge
of a court having jurisdiction to try the
offence, otherwise directs.
(2) The court of general gaol delivery or
general sessions of the peace, or other court
having like powers, held in such district,
county or place, and every judge or other
presiding thereat, has jurisdiction to
in reference to any person committed
in default of sureties for good behaviour or to
keep the peace, the like order as such court,
judge or other person might make if the court
were being held in the district, county or
place in which such person was committed.
R.S., c. 217, s. 9.

**10.** The Lieutenant Governor may, at any
time, by proclamation published in the official
gazette of the province and in the Canada
Gazette, declare that any proclamation issued
as hereinbefore provided, shall, from and
after a time stated, cease to have effect ; and
such proclamation ceases to have effect
accordingly. R.S., c. 217, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Lieutenant Governor may,
after the issue of such last-mentioned procla
mation, direct the sheriff to transfer so many
of the prisoners then confined in the gaol, so
named as aforesaid, as the Lieutenant
Governor thinks proper, to the gaol of the
district, county or place in which, but for the
operation of the preceding sections, such
prisoners would have been confined.
(2) Such order is sufficient authority to the
respective sheriffs and officers to deliver and
receive, and to the keeper of such last-
mentioned gaol to detain therein, any such
prisoners, according to the exigency of the
warrant or sentence under which they were
originally confined. R.S., c. 217, s. 11.
Employment of Prisoners

**12.** (1) Every one who is sentenced to
imprisonment in any gaol, or other public or
reformatory prison, is subject to the provisions
of the statutes relating to gaol or prison, and
to all rules and regulations lawfully made
with respect thereto.
(2) Imprisonment in the Central Prison for
the Province of Ontario, in the Andrew Mercer
Ontario Reformatory for females, and in any
reformatory prison for females in the Province
of Quebec, shall be with hard labour, whether
so directed in the sentence or not. R.S., c. 217,
s. 12.

**13.** The Lieutenant Governor of any
employed beyond the limits of such common
gaol or prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 13.

**14.** After such regulations are made, the
Lj eutenant Governor may, from time to time,
direct or authorize the employment, upon
any specific work or duty, beyond the limits
of any common gaol or prison, of any prisoner
who is sentenced to be imprisoned with hard
labour in such gaol for any offence against
any law of Canada. R.S., c. 217, s. 14.

**15.** Every such prisoner is, during such
employment, subject to such regulations and
to all the rules, regulations and discipline of
the gaol or prison, so far as applicable. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 15.

**16.** No such prisoner shall be so employed,
except under the strictest care and supervision
of officers appointed to that duty. R.S., c.
217,s. 16.
Remission

**17.** (1) Every person who is sentenced or
committed by a judge, magistrate or justice
of the peace to imprisonment for a fixed term
in a place of confinement other than a
penitentiary shall, upon being received there
in, be credited with statutory remission
amounting to one-quarter of the fixed term
for which he has been sentenced or committed
as time off subject to good conduct.
(2) Every prisoner who, having been cred
ited with remission pursuant to subsection (1),
commits any breach of the prison regulations
is, at the discretion of the person by whom
the breach is determined to be committed,
liable to forfeit, in whole or in part, the
statutory remission that stands to his credit.
(3) Every prisoner who is convicted by a
judge, magistrate or justice of the peace of
the offence of escape, attempt to escape or
being unlawfully at large forthwith forfeits
three-quarters of the statutory remission
standing to his credit at the time that offence
committed.
(4) An official designated by the Lieutenant
Governor of the province in which a prisoner
is confined may, where he is satisfied that it
is in the interest of the rehabilitation of the
prisoner, remit in whole or in part any
forfeiture of statutory remission.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (1), no pris
oner shall be credited with statutory remission
that would reduce the term of his imprison
ment to less than fourteen days. 1968-69, c.
38, s. 109.

**18.** (1) Every person who is sentenced or
committed by a judge, magistrate or justice
of the peace to imprisonment in a place of
confinement other than a penitentiary may
be credited with three days remission of his
sentence in respect of each calendar month
during which he has applied himself industri
ously, as determined in accordance with any
rules made by the Lieutenant Governor of
the province in which the person is imprisoned,
to the program of the place of confinement
in which he is imprisoned.
(2) Upon being committed to a place of
confinement, other than a penitentiary,
pursuant to section 20 or 21 of the Parole Act,
a prisoner shall be credited with earned
remission equal to the earned remission that
stood to his credit at the time his parole or
mandatory supervision was revoked or for
feited. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 109.
J9. Where
( a ) under the Parole Act, authority is
granted to a prisoner to be at large during
his term of imprisonment, or
  * (_fe_) a person who is at large by reason of
statutory or earned remission is subject to
mandatory supervision under the Parole
Act,
his term of imprisonment, for all purposes of
that Act, includes any period of statutory
remission and any period of earned remission
standing to his credit when he is released.
1968-69, c. 38, s. 109.
Escapes and Rescues

**20.** Every street, highway or public thor
oughfare of any kind along or across which
prisoners pass in going to or returning from
their work, and every place where they are so
employed, shall, while so used, be considered
as a portion of the gaol or prison, and any
escape or attempt at escape, and any rescue
or attempt at rescue, made on such street,
highway or thoroughfare, shall be held to
have been made within or from such gaol or
prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 22.

**21.** Every one sentenced to imprisonment
or to be detained in any reformatory prison,
reformatory school, industrial refuge, indus
trial home or industrial school, who escapes
or attempts to escape therefrom, may, at any
time, be apprehended without warrant and
brought before any magistrate, who, upon
proof of his identity and of the escape or
attempt to escape, if the escape or attempt to
escape is from a reformatory prison or a
reformatory school, shall remand him thereto
for the remainder of his original term of
imprisonment or detention. R.S., c. 217, s. 23.

**22.** Where the escape or attempt to escape
is from an industrial refuge, industrial home
or industrial school, the magistrate may
remand the offender thereto for the remainder
of his original term of imprisonment or
detention; or where the officer in charge of
such refuge, home or school certifies in writing
that the removal of the offender to a place of
safer or stricter imprisonment is desirable,
and the governing body of such refuge, home
or school applies for such removal, and
sufficient cause therefor is shown to the
satisfaction of such magistrate, the magistrate
may order the offender to be removed to and
to be kept imprisoned, for the remainder of
his original term of imprisonment or deten
tion, in any reformatory prison, or reformatory
school, in which by law such offender might
be imprisoned for an indictable offence, and
when there is no such reformatory prison or
school, the magistrate may order
the offender to be removed to and to be so
kept imprisoned in any other place of
imprisonment to which the offender may be
lawfully committed. R.S., c. 217, s. 24.

**23.** In the case of any escape or attempt to
escape as aforesaid, whether the term of
imprisonment or detention has expired or not,
the magistrate may sentence the offender to
such additional term of imprisonment or
detention, as the case may be, not exceeding
one year, as to such magistrate seems a proper
punishment for the escape or attempt to
escape. R.S., c. 217, s. 25.
Incorrigible Offenders

**24.** Every one sentenced to imprisonment
or detention in or ordered to be detained in
any industrial refuge, industrial home or
industrial school, by reason of incorrigible or
vicious conduct, or with reference to the
general discipline of the institution, who is
beyond the control of the officer in charge of
such institution, may, at any time before the
expiration of his term of imprisonment or
detention, be brought without warrant before
any magistrate. R.S., c. 217, s. 26.

**25.** Where the officer in charge of such
refuge, home or school certifies in writing that
the removal of such offender to a place of
stricter imprisonment is desirable, and the
governing body of the refuge, home or school
applies for such removal, and sufficient cause
therefor is shown to the satisfaction of such
magistrate, he may order the offender to be
removed to and to be kept imprisoned, for
the remainder of his original term of
imprisonment or detention, in any reforma
tory prison or reformatory school in which by
law such offender may be imprisoned for an
indictable offence ; and when there is no such
reformatory prison or school, the magistrate
may order the offender to be removed to and
to be kept imprisoned in any other place of
imprisonment to which the offender may be
lawfully committed. R.S., c. 217, s. 27.

**26.** The magistrate may, upon conviction
for any such incorrigible or vicious conduct,
the offender to such additional term
of imprisonment, not exceeding one year, as
to such magistrate seems a proper punishment
for the incorrigible conduct of the offender.
R.S..C. 217,s. 28.
Juvenile Offenders and Vagrants

**27.** Young persons apparently under the
of sixteen y ears who are
  * (_a_) arrested upon any warrant,
(6) committed to custody at any stage of a
preliminary inquiry into a charge for an
indictable offence,
  * (_c_) committed to custody at any stage of a
trial, either for an indictable offence or for
an offence punishable on summary convic
tion, or
  * (_d_) committed to custody after such trial,
but before imprisonment under sentence,
shall be kept in custody separate from older
persons charged with criminal offences and
separate from all persons undergoing sentences
of imprisonment, and shall not be confined
in the lock-ups or police stations with older
persons charged with criminal offences or with
ordinary criminals. R.S., c. 217, s. 29.

**28.** (1) The court or person before whom
any offender, whose age at the time of his
trial does not in the opinion of the court
exceed sixteen years, is convicted whether
summarily or otherwise of an offence punish
able by imprisonment may sentence such
offender to imprisonment in any reformatory
prison in the province in which such conviction
takes place, subject to any Act respecting
imprisonment in such reformatory.
(2) In no case shall the sentence be less
than two years or more than five years
confinement in such reformatory prison.
(3) Such imprisonment shall be substituted,
in such case, for the imprisonment in the
penitentiary or other place of confinement by
which the offender would otherwise be
punishable under any Act or law relating
thereto ; but in every case where the term of
imprisonment is fixed by law to be more than
five years, such imprisonment shall be in the
penitentiary.
(4) Every person imprisoned in a reforma
tory is liable to perform such labour as is
required of such person. R.S., c. 217, s. 30.

**29.** Where provision is made therefor by
the laws of the province in which the
conviction takes place, any person convicted
of being a loose, idle or disorderly person
may, instead of being committed to the
common gaol or other public prison, be
committed to any house of industry or
correction, alms-house, workhouse or reforma
tory prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 31.
Custody Pending Transfer to Prison, etc.
3Q. Any sheriff or other person having the
custody of any offender sentenced to impris-
onment in any prison, reformatory, refuge or
industrial school, may detain the offender in
the common gaol of the county or district in
which such offender is sentenced, or other
place of confinement in which the offender
is, until a person lawfully authorized in that
behalf requires the offender s delivery for the
purpose of being conveyed to such prison or
reformatory. R.S., c. 217, s. 32.

**31.** Where any offender sentenced to be
confined in any prison or refuge is in such a
weak state of health that he cannot safely or
conveniently be removed thereto, he may be
detained in the common gaol or other place
of confinement in which he is, until he is
sufficiently recovered to be safely and
conveniently removed to such prison or refuge.
R.S., c. 217, s. 33.

**32.** Where the gaol surgeon, or other
medical practitioner acting in that behalf,
certifies that any offender sentenced to any
prison or refuge is in such a weak state of
health that such offender is unable to perform
hard labour, the offender may be detained in
the common gaol or other place of confinement
in which the offender is, until he is sufficiently
recovered to be employed at hard labour.
R.S.,c. 217, s. 34.

**33.** The time for which any person,
is held in custody, under section 30,
or 32, shall be reckoned in computing the
time served by such person in such prison or
refuge. R.S., c. 217, s. 35.

**34.** (i) Any offender who, under this Act,
is liable to be removed from any common
gaol to any prison or refuge, or from any
prison or refuge back to any gaol or to any
penitentiary, may be conveyed for that
purpose through any county, district or other
territorial division in the province in which
such offender has been convicted, and shall
be deemed to be in lawful custody while being
so conveyed.
(2) Any person lawfully authorized to
convey such offender as aforesaid has, until
such offender has been delivered to the
warden or superintendent, or other head of
such prison or refuge, or the warden of the
penitentiary, as the case may be, the same
authority and power over and with regard to
such offender and for preventing escape, and
recapturing such offender in case of escape,
as the sheriff of the county, district or other
territorial division in which the offender was
convicted would himself have in conveying
such offender from one part of that county,
district or other territorial division to another.
R.S., c. 217, s. 36.

**35.** (i) The constable or other officer
i having charge i of / any person accused i or
convicted of any offence in any provisional
judicial district in the Province of Ontario
committed to any common gaol in the
Province, and entrusted with his conveyance
to any such common gaol, may pass through
any county in the Province with such person
in his custody.
(2) The keeper of the common gaol of any
county in the Province of Ontario in which it
is found necessary to lodge for safe keeping
any such person so being conveyed through
such county in custody, shall receive such
person and safely keep and detain him in
such common gaol for such period as is
reasonable or necessary.
(3) xhe keeper of any common gaol in the
Province, to which any such person is
as aforesaid, shall receive that
person and safely keep and detain him in
such common gaol under his custody until
discharged in due course of law, or released
on bail in cases in which bail may be by law
taken. R.S., c. 217, s. 37.
Temporary Absence

**36.** Where, in the opinion of an official
designated by the Lieutenant Governor of
the province in which a prisoner is confined
in a place other than a penitentiary, it is
necessary or desirable that the prisoner should
be absent, with or without escort, for medical
or humanitarian reasons or to assist in the
rehabilitation of the prisoner at any time
during his period of imprisonment, the absence
of the prisoner may be authorized from time
to time by such official for an unlimited
period for medical reasons and for a period
not exceeding fifteen days for humanitarian
reasons or to assist in the rehabilitation of the
prisoner. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 110.
Discharge and Recommittal

**37.** (i) NO prisoner shall be discharged
^ rom anv prison, or from any refuge for
females at the termination of his or her term
of confinement, if then suffering from any
contagious or infectious disease, or under any
acute or dangerous illness, but he or she shall
be permitted to remain in such prison or
refuge until he or she recovers from the
disease or illness.
(2) Any person remaining for any such
cause in such prison or refuge shall be under
the same discipline and control as if his or
her term was still unexpired. R.S., c. 217,
s. 38.

**38.** (1) Any person who, under this Act, is
liable to be removed from any prison or
refuge, may be so removed notwithstanding
that such imprisonment, or any part thereof,
is imposed in default of the payment of a
fine or penalty in money, and that such
person is entitled to be discharged upon
payment of such fine or penalty.
(2) If the fine or penalty is paid after the
removal of the offender, the same shall be
to the proper officer of such prison or
to defray the expenses of the removal
the said offender, and otherwise for the
of such prison.
(3) Nothing in this section affects the right
of any private person to such fine or penalty,
or any part thereof. R.S., c. 217, s. 40.

**39.** The judge of any county court or any
police magistrate may, upon satisfactory proof
that any boy or girl who was sentenced under
any Act of the Parliament of Canada, and
who has been discharged on probation, has
violated the conditions of his or her discharge,
order such boy or girl to be recommitted to
the refuge, and thereupon such boy or girl
shall be detained therein under his or her
original sentence, as if such boy or girl had
never been discharged. R.S., c. 217, s. 41.

**40.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations as he considers advisable for
the discharge, after the expiration of the fixed
term of sentence, of prisoners confined in any
refuge under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada ; and such discharge may be either
absolute or upon probation, subject to such
conditions as are imposed under the authority
of the regulations. R.S., c. 217, s. 42.

**41.** The Lieutenant Governor of the Prov
ince of Ontario may appoint a Board of
Parole for the Province whose duty it shall
be to inquire from time to time into the cases
of prisoners sentenced to the Ontario Reform
atory, the Andrew Mercer Reformatory or
any industrial farm, and where as a result of
such inquiry the Board thinks proper, it may
permit prisoners serving indeterminate sen
tences to be paroled under conditions
approved of by the Solicitor General of
Canada, and when the terms on which such
prisoners have been paroled have been
complied with, the Board may recommend
for the consideration of the Solicitor General
the final discharge of such prisoners. R.S., c.
217,s.43; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

## PART II

## ONTARIO
Application of Part

**42.** This Part applies only to the Province
Ontario. R.S., c. 217, s. 44.
Interpretation

**43.** In this Part "training school" means
any training school provided or authorized
by the Lieutenant Governor of the Province
of Ontario under The Training Schools Act,
1965, and includes for all the purposes of this
Act, the Ontario Reformatory for Boys. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 45. [See also 1965 Ont. c. 132]
The Reformatory for the Province of Ontario

**44.** Every court in the Province of Ontario,
before which any male person is convicted for
an offence against the laws of Canada,
punishable by imprisonment in the common
gaol for the term of three months, or for any
longer time, may sentence such person to
imprisonment for a term of not less than three
months and for an indeterminate period
thereafter of not more than two years less one
day in the Ontario Reformatory instead of
the common gaol of the county or judicial
district where the offence was committed or
was tried. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 112.

**45.** (1) Every person confined in any one
of the common gaols of the Province under
sentence of imprisonment for any offence
against the laws of Canada may, by warrant
signed by an officer authorized by the
Lieutenant Governor in that behalf, be
transferred from such common gaol to the
Ontario Reformatory or to an industrial farm,
there to be imprisoned for the unexpired
portion of the term of imprisonment to which
such person was originally sentenced.
(2) Such person shall thereupon be impris
oned in the Ontario Reformatory or industrial
farm for the residue of such term unless in
the meantime he is lawfully discharged or
removed, and is subject to all the rules and
of the Ontario Reformatory or
farm, as the case may be. R.S., c.
s. 47.

**46.** The Superintendent of the Custodial
Branch of the Ontario Reformatory or the
superintendent of an industrial farm, as the
case may be, shall receive every offender so
transferred and every offender legally certi
fied to him as sentenced to imprisonment
therein, and shall detain him subject to all
the rules, regulations and discipline of their
respective institutions until the term for which
he has been sentenced is completed or until
he is otherwise paroled or discharged in due
course of law. R.S., c. 217, s. 48.

**47.** (1) The Lieutenant Governor may,
from time to time, authorize, direct or sanction
the employment upon any specific work or
duty outside or beyond the limits of the
Ontario Reformatory or an industrial farm of
any of the prisoners confined or sentenced to
be imprisoned therein or transferred thereto,
as herein provided.
(2) All such prisoners are, during the
employment mentioned in subsection (1),
subject to such rules, regulations and discipline
as are approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in that behalf. R.S., c. 217, s. 49.

**48.** Any officer authorized by the Lieuten
ant Governor in that behalf may, from time
to time, by warrant, direct the removal of any
offender from the Ontario Reformatory to an
industrial farm, or to the common gaol of the
county in which he was sentenced, or to any
other gaol, or from an industrial farm to the
Ontario Reformatory, or the common gaol of
the county in which he was sentenced, or to
any other industrial farm or gaol. R.S., c. 217,
s. 50.
Training School for Boys

**49.** Where any boy, who, at the time of his
trial, appears to the court to be under the age
of sixteen years, is convicted of an offence
against a law of Canada for which a sentence
of imprisonment for a period of three months
or longer, but less than five years, may be
imposed upon an adult convicted of the like
offence, and the court before which such boy
is convicted is satisfied that a due regard for
the material and moral welfare of the boy
manifestly requires that he be committed to
a training school, then such court may
sentence the boy to be imprisoned in any
training school, for such term as the court
thinks fit, not being greater than the term of
imprisonment which could be imposed upon
an adult for the like offence ; and may further
sentence the boy to be kept in such training
school for an indefinite time after the
expiration of such fixed term ; but the whole
period of confinement in the training school
shall not exceed five years from the com
mencement of his imprisonment. R.S., c. 217,
s. 51.
go. Where any boy, apparently under the
a e ^ sixteen years, is convicted of an offence
against a law of Canada punishable on
summary conviction, and thereupon is sen
tenced and committed to prison in any
common gaol for a period not less than
fourteen days, any judge of any one of the
superior courts, or any judge of a county
court, in any case occurring within his county,
may examine and inquire into the circum
stances of such case and conviction, and when
he considers that the material and moral
welfare of the boy requires such sentence, he
may, as an additional sentence for such
offence, sentence such boy to be sent either
forthwith or at the expiration of his impris
onment in such gaol, to any training school,
to be there detained for the purpose of his
industrial and moral education, for an
indefinite period, not exceeding in the whole
five years, from the commencement of his
imprisonment in the common gaol. R.S., c.
217, s. 52.

**51.** The Governor General, by warrant
under his hand, may, at any time in his
discretion, the consent of the Provincial
Secretary of Ontario having been first
cause any boy who is imprisoned in
a reformatory or gaol in the Province, under
for any offence against a law of
Canada, and who is certified by the court,
been, in the opinion of such court, judge
magistrate, at the time of his trial, of or
under the age of thirteen years, to be
transferred for the remainder of his term of
imprisonment to a training school in the
Province. R.S., c. 217, s. 53.

**52.** (1) Where, under any law of Canada,
any boy is convicted, whether summarily or
otherwise, of any offence punishable by
imprisonment, and the court, judge, stipendi
ary or police magistrate by whom he is so
convicted is of opinion that such boy does not
exceed the age of thirteen years, such court,
judge or magistrate may sentence the boy to
imprisonment in a training school for any
term not exceeding five years and not less
than two years; but no such boy shall be
detained in any training school beyond the
age of seventeen years.
(2) No boy shall be sentenced to any such
school, unless public notice has been given in
the official gazette of Ontario, and has not
been countermanded, that such school is ready
to receive and maintain the boys sentenced
under the laws of Canada. R.S., c. 217, s. 54.

**53.** Every boy sentenced or transferred to
a training school shall be detained therein
until the expiration of the fixed term, if any,
of his sentence, unless sooner discharged by
lawful authority, and thereafter shall, subject
to the provisions hereof and to any regulations
made, as hereinbefore provided, be detained
in such training school, for a period not to
exceed five years from the commencement of
his imprisonment, for the purpose of his
industrial and moral education. R.S., c. 217,
s.55.

**54.** A copy of the sentence of the court,
dul y certified by the proper officer, or the
warrant or order of the judge or other
magistrate by whom any boy is sentenced to
confinement in such training school, is a
sufficient authority to the sheriff, constable
or other officer who is directed, verbally or
otherwise, to do so, to convey such boy to the
common gaol of the county where such
sentence is pronounced, and for the gaoler of
such gaol to receive and detain such boy,
a person who is lawfully authorized
the delivery of such boy for removal
the training school. R.S., c. 217, s. 56.
Reformatory for Females

**55.** Every court before which any female
is convicted of an offence against the laws of
Canada, punishable by imprisonment in the
common gaol for a term of two months or for
any longer time, may sentence such female to
imprisonment for an indefinite period not
exceeding two years in a reformatory for
females, hereafter in this section and in
sections 56 to 61 referred to as "the Reforma
tory", instead of the common gaol of the
county or judicial district where the offence
was committed or was tried. 1968-69, c. 38,
s. 113.

**56.** (1) Any female, from time to time
confined in any common gaol under sentence
of imprisonment for any offence against the
laws of Canada, may, by warrant signed by
an officer authorized by the Lieutenant
Governor in that behalf, be transferred from
such common gaol to the Reformatory or to
an industrial farm, there to be imprisoned for
the unexpired portion of the term of impris
onment to which such female was originally
sentenced or committed to the common gaol.
(2) Such female shall thereupon be impris
oned in the Reformatory or industrial farm
for the residue of the said term, unless in the
meantime she is lawfully discharged or
removed, and she is subject to all the rules
and regulations of the Reformatory or
industrial farm, as the case may be. R.S., c.
217, s. 58.

**57.** (1) Whenever any female is convicted
under the Criminal Code of being a loose, idle
or disorderly person or vagrant, or is convicted
of an offence under the sections thereof
relating to the summary trial of indictable
offences, she may be sentenced to the
Reformatory for an indefinite term less than
two years.
(2) If any term exceeding six months is
imposed, no fine shall be imposed in addition.

**58.** Any officer appointed by the Lieuten
Governor, or other officer or person, by
direction or by direction of the court or
other lawful authority, may convey to the
Reformatory any convict sentenced, or liable
to be imprisoned therein, and deliver her to
the superintendent or keeper thereof, without
any further warrant than a copy of the
sentence taken from the minutes of the court
by which the offender was tried, and certified
by a judge or the clerk or acting clerk of such
court. R.S., c. 217, s. 60.

**59.** (1) The Superintendent of the Reform
atory or the superintendent of an industrial
farm, as the case may be, shall receive every
offender so transferred, and every offender
legally certified to him as sentenced to
imprisonment therein, and shall there detain
her, subject to all the rules, regulations and
discipline of their respective institutions, until
the term for which she has been sentenced is
completed or until she is paroled or discharged
in due course of law.
(2) The Lieutenant Governor may from
time to time authorize, direct or sanction the
employment upon any specific work or duty
outside or beyond the limits of the Reforma
tory or industrial farm of any female confined
or sentenced to be imprisoned or transferred
thereto as herein provided.
(3) All such prisoners shall, during the
employment mentioned in subsection (2), be
subject to such rules, regulations and discipline
as are approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in that behalf. R.S., c. 217, s. 61.

**60.** Any officer authorized by the Lieuten
ant Governor in that behalf, may, from time
to time, by warrant, direct the removal of any
female from the Reformatory to an industrial
farm or to the common gaol of the county in
which she was sentenced, or to any other gaol,
or from an industrial farm to the Reformatory
or the common gaol of the county in which
she was sentenced, or to any other industrial
farm or gaol. R.S., c. 217, s. 62.

**61.** The Superintendent of the Reformato
ry, the superintendent of an industrial farm,
or the keeper of any common gaol, having
the custody of any offender ordered to be
removed, shall, when required to do so, deliver
up to the constable or other officer or person
who produces the said warrant, such offender,
together with a copy, attested by the said
superintendent or keeper, of the sentence and
date of conviction as given on the reception
of the offender into the custody of such
superintendent or keeper. R.S., c. 217, s. 63.
Industrial Refuge for Girls

**62.** Where any girl who at the time of her
trial appears to the court to be under the age
of fourteen years is convicted of an offence
for which a sentence of imprisonment for a
term of one month or longer, but less than
five years, may be imposed upon an adult
convicted of the like offence, and the court
before which the girl is convicted is satisfied
that a due regard for her material and moral
welfare manifestly requires that she should
be committed to the Industrial Refuge for
Girls of Ontario, the court may sentence that
girl to be imprisoned therein, for such fixed
term as the court thinks fit, not being greater
than the term of imprisonment that could be
imposed upon an adult for the like offence,
and may further sentence the said girl to be
kept in such Industrial Refuge for an
indefinite time after the expiration of such
fixed term ; but the whole term of confinement
in the Industrial Refuge shall not exceed five
years from the commencement of her impris
onment. R.S., c. 217, s. 64.

**63.** Where any girl, apparently under the
age of fourteen years, is convicted of any
offence punishable by law on summary
conviction, and thereupon is sentenced and
committed to prison in any common gaol for
a term of not less than fourteen days, any
judge of one of the superior courts, or any
judge of a county court, in any case occurring
his county, may examine and inquire
into the circumstances of such case and
conviction, and if he considers the material
and moral welfare of the girl requires it, he
may, as an additional sentence for such
offence, sentence such girl to be sent either
forthwith, or at the expiration of her
imprisonment in such gaol, to the Industrial
Refuge for Girls, to be detained there for the
purpose of her industrial and moral education
for an indefinite period, not exceeding in the
whole five years from the commencement of
her imprisonment in the common gaol. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 65.

**64.** Every girl so sentenced shall be
detained in the Refuge until the expiration
of the fixed term of her sentence, unless
discharged sooner by lawful authority ; and
such girl thereafter shall, and every girl
sentenced under section 63 shall, subject, in
both cases, to the provisions of this Part, and
to any regulations made as in this Part
hereafter provided, be detained in the Refuge
for a term not exceeding five years from the
commencement of her imprisonment, for the
purpose of her industrial and moral education.
R.S., c. 217, s. 66.
Apprenticeship

**65.** (1) Where any respectable and trust
worthy person is willing to undertake the
charge of any boy committed to any training
school, when such boy is over the age of
twelve years, or of any girl committed to the
Industrial Refuge for Girls, as an apprentice
to the trade or calling of such person, or for
the purpose of domestic service, and such boy
or girl is confined in the training school or
Refuge by virtue of a sentence or order
pronounced under the authority of any Act
of the Parliament of Canada, the superin
tendent of the training school or Refuge may,
with the consent and in the name of the
Lieutenant Governor of Ontario, bind the
said boy or girl to such person for any term
not to extend, without his or her consent,
beyond a term of five years, from the
commencement of his or her imprisonment.
(2) The Lieutenant Governor shall there
upon order that such boy or girl shall be
discharged from the said school or Refuge on
probation, to remain so discharged, if his or
her conduct during the residue of the term of
five years, from the commencement of his or
her imprisonment, continues to be good, and
such boy or girl shall be discharged accord
ingly.
(3) Any wages reserved in any indenture of
apprenticeship made under this section shall
be payable to such boy or girl, or to some
other person for his or her benefit. R.S., c.
217, s. 67.
Other Provisions as to Juvenile Offenders

**66.** No boy or girl shall be discharged
under section 65, except on probation, as
aforesaid, until after the fixed term of his or
her sentence has elapsed, unless by the
authority of the Governor General. R.S., c.
217, s. 68.

**67.** Where any child, appearing to the
court or justice before whom the child is tried,
to be under the age of fourteen years, is
convicted of any offence against the law of
Canada, whether indictable or punishable on
summary conviction, such court or justice,
instead of sentencing the child to any
imprisonment provided by law in such case,
may order that the child shall be committed
to the charge of any home for destitute or
neglected children, or to the charge of any
children s aid society duly organized and
approved by the Lieutenant Governor of
Ontario, or to any training school. R.S., c.
217, s. 69.

**68.** (1) Whenever an information or com
plaint is laid or made against any boy under
the age of twelve years, or any girl under the
age of thirteen years, for the commission of
an offence against the law of Canada, whether
indictable or punishable on summary convic
tion, the court or justice seized thereof shall
give notice thereof in writing to the director
of the children s aid society, if there is one in
the county, and shall allow him opportunity
to investigate the charges made, and may
also notify the parents of the child, or either
of them, or other person apparently interested
(2) The court or justice may advise and
counsel with the said officer and with the
parents or such other person, and may consider
any report made by the said officer upon the
charges.
(3) Where, after such consultation and
advice, and upon consideration of any report
so made, and after hearing the matter of
information or complaint, the court or justice
is of opinion that the public interest and the
welfare of the child will be best served thereby,
then, instead of committing the child for trial
or sentencing the child, as the case may be,
the court or justice may, by order,
  * (_a_) authorize the said officer to take the
child and, under the law of Ontario, bind
the child out to some suitable person until
the child has attained the age of twenty-
one years, or any less age ;
(6) place the child in an approved foster-
home;
  * (_c_) impose a fine not exceeding ten dollars ;
  * (_d_) suspend sentence for a definite period
or for an indefinite period ; or
  * (_e_) if the child has been found guilty of the
offence charged or is shown to be wilfully
wayward and unmanageable, commit the
child to a training school, or to the Ontario
Reformatory for Boys, or to the Refuge for
Girls, as the case may be, and in such cases,
the report of the said officer shall be
attached to the warrant of commitment.
R.S..C. 217,8. 70.

**69.** Whenever an order has been made
under either section 67 or 68, the child may
thereafter be dealt with under the law of the
Province of Ontario, in the same manner, in
all respects, as if such order had been lawfully
made in respect of a proceeding instituted
under the authority of a statute of the
Province of Ontario. R.S., c. 217, s. 71.

**70.** Except in the case of children cared
for in a shelter or temporary home established
under the Act of the Legislature of the
Province of Ontario, passed in the year 1893,
section 67, 68 or 69, be committed to the care
of any Roman Catholic children s aid society,
or be placed in any Roman Catholic family
as its foster-home ; nor shall any Roman
Catholic child, under the said sections, be
committed to the care of any Protestant
children s aid society, or be placed in any
Protestant family as its foster-home. R.S., c.
217, s. 72.
Houses of Refuge for Females

**71.** (1) All females Sentenced to, Or COn-
f j , . , r i
fined from time to time in any of the common
gaols of the Province of Ontario, under
sentence of imprisonment by a police magis
trate of any city, for any offence against any
Act of the Parliament of Canada may be
committed to any refuge situated in the
county or union of counties, city or town in
which such females respectively were convict
ed, or may be transferred, by order of such
police magistrate, from such common gaol to
such refuge, to be there respectively impris
oned for the whole or the unexpired portions
of the terms of imprisonment for which such
females were originally sentenced or commit
ted respectively to such common gaol.
(2) Such females shall thereupon be impris
oned in such refuges for the whole or the
residue of their respective terms of imprison
ment, and they are subject to all the rules
and regulations of such refuges respectively.
(3) N O p ro testant female shall, under this
Part, be committed or transferred to a Roman
Catholic institution, and no Roman Catholic
to a Protestant institution. R.S., c. 217, s. 73.

**72.** The police magistrate may, from time
to time, direct the removal of any such
offender from any house of refuge to the
common gaol, to which such offender had
been originally sentenced, or from which she
had been previously removed, or to any other
of imprisonment to which the offender
may be removed according to law. R.S., c.
217, s. 74.

**73.** Any officer to whom the magistrate s
warrant in that behalf is directed, may convey
to the house of refuge for females named in
his warrant in that behalf, any offender liable
to be imprisoned therein, and deliver her to
the superintendent without any further war
rant than a copy of the sentence or warrant
of commitment against such offender from
the proper court in that behalf, certified under
the hand of the gaoler to whom the same is
directed. R.S., c. 217, s. 75.

**74.** The superintendent of the refuge, or
the keeper of any common gaol, having the
custody of any offender ordered to be removed
from a refuge to a common gaol or other
place of imprisonment, or from the common
gaol to a refuge, shall, when required to do
so, deliver up to the constable or other officer
or person who produces the said warrant, the
offender named therein, together with a copy
certified by him or her, of the warrant of
commitment of the offender, or of the copy
thereof as given him or her on the reception
of the offender into his or her custody. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 76.

**75.** The officer or other person aforesaid
shall give a receipt to the said superintendent
or gaoler for the offender, and shall thereupon,
with all convenient speed, convey and deliver
up the offender with the said certified copy
of the warrant into the custody of the
superintendent of the refuge or keeper of the
gaol or other place of imprisonment mentioned
in the warrant, who shall give a receipt in
writing for every offender so received into his
or her custody to such officer or other person
as his or her discharge ; and the offender shall
be kept in custody in the refuge or gaol or
other place of imprisonment to which she
may have been so removed, until the
termination of her sentence or until her
pardon or release or discharge by law, unless
she is in the meantime again removed under
competent authority. R.S., c. 217, s. 77.

**76.** Any offender who escapes from any
such refuge before her sentence therein has
expired, may be again arrested without any
constable of the county, city, town or village
in which she may be found and conveyed to
the refuge from which she escaped, or to the
county gaol of the county from which she was
first removed, and she shall there be confined
in such refuge or gaol for the balance of the
period of her sentence that remained unex-
pired at the time of her escape. R.S., c. 217,
s. 78.

**77.** No prisoner shall be committed to any
refuge without the consent of the superin
tendent thereof in that behalf. R.S.,c. 217, s. 79.

## PART III

## QUEBEC
Application of Part

**78.** This Part applies only to the Province
of Quebec. R.S., c. 217, s. 80.
Reformatory Schools for Boys

**79.** Every person apparently under the age
of sixteen years, who is convicted before any
court of criminal jurisdiction or before any
judge of the sessions of the peace, recorder,
district or police magistrate, of any offence
for which he would be liable to imprisonment,
may be sentenced, on such conviction, to be
detained in a certified reformatory school for
any term not less than two years and not
more than five years, or he may be sentenced
to be first imprisoned in the common gaol for
a term not in any case exceeding three
months, and at the expiration of his sentence,
to be sent to a certified reformatory school,
and to be there detained for a term of not
less than two years and not more than five
years. R.S., c. 217, s. 81.

**80.** The Lieutenant Governor may, at any
time in his discretion, order that any offender
detained in such reformatory school, under a
summary conviction, be discharged. R.S., c.
217, s. 82.

**81.** (1) A person apparently under the age
school while awaiting trial.
(2) If there is more than one such school
within such distance, the person so charged
shall be detained in the one that is conducted
most nearly in accordance with the religious
belief to which his parents belong, or in which
he has been educated. R.S., c. 217, s. 83.

**82.** (1) Every offender detained in a certi
fied reformatory school, who wilfully neglects
or refuses to conform to the rules thereof,
shall, on summary conviction before a justice
of the peace having jurisdiction in the place
or district in which the school is situated, be
imprisoned with hard labour, for any term
not exceeding three months.
(2) At the expiration of the term of his
imprisonment, he shall, by and at the expense
of the managers of the school, be brought
back to the school from which he was taken,
there to be detained during a period equal to
so much of his period of detention as remained
unexpired at the time of his being sent to the
prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 84.
Reformatory Prisons for Females

**83.** Whenever the Lieutenant Governor of
the Province of Quebec has declared, by
proclamation published in the official gazette
of the Province, that suitable arrangements
have been made in any district in the
Province, for the detention and proper
government and discipline of female convicts
in any separate building or separate portion
of the common gaol in such district, as a
reformatory prison for such convicts, and has,
by such proclamation, declared that such
separate building or portion of a common
gaol shall be a reformatory prison for the
purposes hereof, any female person convicted
in the said Province of any offence, not
capital, and for which she would without this
Part, be punishable by imprisonment for any
term not less than two years, but not exceeding
seven years, shall be punishable by imprison
ment in the female reformatory prison for
any term less than seven, but not less than
five years, and she may be sentenced to such
imprisonment accordingly, although she
not be liable to imprisonment in the
penitentiary for so long a term as that for
YTTri/^V-* which she or\d mnir may be r\d Of\ so sentenced Gdrtt CiY\nCi(~\ t to f\ imprison 1 m rv &amp;gt; 1 13 f\r\
ment in the female reformatory prison. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 85.

**84.** (1) Where, after such proclamation,
any female is convicted of any indictable
offence punishable by imprisonment for any
term less than two years, or of being a loose,
idle or disorderly person or vagrant under the
Criminal Code, then, unless it is proved that
she has been previously convicted and
imprisoned twice or oftener as aforesaid, such
convict shall be asked, by the judge, recorder,
judge of the sessions of the peace, commis
sioner of police, district police, or stipendiary
magistrate, mayor, warden or the two justices
of the peace, or other functionary before
whom the conviction is had, whether she
consents, instead of the imprisonment to
which she is otherwise liable, to be sentenced
to imprisonment for a term of five years in
the female reformatory prison.
(2) If she refuses to give such consent,
sentence shall be passed upon her as if this
Part had not been passed, but if she gives
such consent, or it is proved that she has been
twice convicted as aforesaid, the fact shall be
duly recorded or entered on the proceedings
in the case, and she shall be sentenced
accordingly to imprisonment in the female
reformatory prison for a term of five years.
R.S., c. 217, s. 86.

**85.** Where, at the time of the passing of
any such sentence, there is more than one
female reformatory prison in the Province,
the imprisonment under such sentence shall
be in that one of such reformatory prisons
that is in the same district as the place at
which the sentence is passed, or if there is no
reformatory prison in such district, then in
the reformatory prison nearest to such place ;
but if there is not more than one such
reformatory prison in the Province, then such
imprisonment shall be in it. R.S., c. 217, s. 87.

**86.** Each such female reformatory prison
as aforesaid, is a house of correction and a
public reformatory prison, within the meaning
the sixth enumeration of section 92 of the
British North America Act, 1867, and subject
to such laws as the Legislature of the Province
makes with respect to the establishment,
maintenance and management thereof. R.S.,
c. 217,s.88.
Employment of Prisoners

**87.** (1) Every sheriff or gaoler in the
Province of Quebec, being thereunto author
ized by the Lieutenant Governor, or in such
manner as any Act of the Legislature of the
Province provides, and under such regulations
as the Legislature makes or authorizes to be
made in that behalf, may employ any male
convict sentenced to hard labour in such
prison, at hard labour outside the walls or
precincts of the prison, and may exercise the
same powers of restraint and discipline, and
for preventing escape, while the convict is so
outside the walls or precincts, as if he were
inside the same, and whether his labour is so
employed directly by the Government of the
Province or by any contractor to whom such
labour is let or hired out by the Government,
or by any competent authority.
(2) The sentence of any such male convict
shall be understood to include such employ
ment as aforesaid.
(3) Any time during which a convict is so
employed shall be reckoned as part of the
term for which he was sentenced to be confined
in such prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 89.
Common Gaols

**88.** Every common gaol shall be a house
of correction, reformatory prison and place of
detention. R.S., c. 217, s. 90.

## PART IV

## NOVA SCOTIA
Application of Part

**89.** This Part applies only to the Province
of Nova Scotia. R.S., c. 217, s. 91.
Interpretation

**90.** (1) I n this Part
means a child as defined by section 2
of the Juvenile Delinquents Act;
institution" means any one of
,, f n
the following :
  * (_a_) the Maritime Home for Girls, at Truro,
  * (_b_) the Good Shepherd Industrial Refuge,
at Halifax,
  * (_c_) the Halifax Industrial School, at Hali
fax,
  * (_d_) St. Patrick s Home, at Halifax,
  * (_e_) the Nova Scotia School for Boys.
(2) Where any child is convicted of an
offence against the laws of Canada for which
a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed
upon an adult convicted of a like offence, the
court or magistrate before which the child is
convicted may sentence such child to be
imprisoned in a reformatory institution for
such fixed term, not less than three months
nor more than three years, as the court or
magistrate thinks fit.
(3) Every court or magistrate before whom
anv suc ^ c hild is convicted before passing
sentence upon such child shall make due
inquiries to ascertain the religious denomina
tion to which the child belongs ; and no child
of the Protestant faith shall be sentenced to
any Roman Catholic institution and no child
of the Roman Catholic faith shall be sentenced
to any Protestant institution.
(4) Girls of the Protestant faith shall be
sentenced to the Maritime Home for Girls at
Truro and girls of the Roman Catholic faith
sna]i b e sentenced to the Good Shepherd
Industrial Refuge at Halifax; boys of the
Protestant faith shall be sentenced to the
Halifax Industrial School at Halifax or the
Nova Scotia School for Boys and boys of the
Roman Catholic faith shall be sentenced to
St. Patrick s Home at Halifax or to the Nova
Scotia School for Boys.
(5) Where any child is convicted in Nova
Scotia of an offence against the laws of
Canada and is sentenced and committed to
prison or to the county gaol, any judge of the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia in any case
the county court in any case occurring
his district, may summarily examine
and inquire into the circumstances of such
conviction, and may quash the sentence to
the said prison or county gaol, and in
substitution thereof sentence the child under
this section.
(6) Every child sentenced under this section
shall be detained in a reformatory institution
until the expiration of the fixed term of the
child s sentence, unless sooner discharged by
lawful authority, and every child after having
served such fixed term shall, subject to the
laws and regulations enacted by the Legisla
ture of the Province of Nova Scotia governing
reformatory institutions, be detained for an
indefinite period not to exceed three years
from the commencement of the child s
imprisonment in the said reformatory institu
tion.
(7) If any responsible and trustworthy
person is willing to undertake the charge of
any child committed to a reformatory insti
tution under this section, the superintendent
of such reformatory institution may, with the
consent and approval of the Superintendent
of Neglected and Delinquent Children for the
Province of Nova Scotia, indenture the child
to such person for any term not to extend
beyond the time when the child reaches the
age of twenty-one years.
(8) Every child sentenced to a reformatory
institution shall within three years from the
date of the child s reception in such reforma
tory institution, unless discharged under this
section, be given over to the custody of the
child s parents or guardians or be placed in a
foster home under indenture for any term not
to extend beyond the time when such child
reaches the age of twenty-one years, as the
superintendent of such reformatory institution
with the consent of the Superintendent of
Neglected and Delinquent Children for the
Province of Nova Scotia, may deem advisable.
(9) After a child has been so given over to
tne custody of the child s parents or guardians
or has been placed in a foster home under
indenture not to extend beyond the time
the child reaches the age of twenty-one
years, the Superintendent of Neglected and
Delinquent Children for the Province of Nova
Scotia may, if he deems it in the interest of
the child, order the child to be returned to
such reformatory institution, there to be
detained for any indefinite period ; but the
total period of confinement for the child in
such reformatory institution shall not exceed
five years.
(10) The Superintendent of Neglected and
Delinquent Children for the Province of Nova
Scotia shall thereupon order that such child
be discharged from such reformatory institu
tion on probation, to remain so discharged
provided the child s conduct during the term
of said indenture continues to be good, and
such child shall be discharged accordingly,
subject, however, to be returned on an order
of the Superintendent of Neglected and
Delinquent Children for the Province of Nova
Scotia to such reformatory institution for an
indefinite period; but the total period of
confinement in a reformatory institution shall
not exceed five years.
(11) Any wages reserved in any indenture
under this section shall be paid to such child
or to some person for such child s benefit.
(12) Any person who induces or attempts to
induce, aids, assists, abets, counsels or procures
any child to leave the person with whom such
child is placed under this section, is liable on
summary conviction to a penalty not exceed
ing one hundred dollars, or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months.
(13) No child shall be discharged from a
reformatory institution until the expiration
of the fixed term of the child s sentence except
under this section, unless by authority of the
Governor General.
(14) The Superintendent of Neglected and
Delinquent Children for the Province of Nova
Scotia shall, subject to the laws of the Province
of Nova Scotia, exercise and maintain super
vision over every child after the child s
discharge from a reformatory institution
under this section.
(15) Where a child sentenced to a reforma
tory institution under this section escapes
such reformatory institution the child
at any time be apprehended without
warrant and brought back to such reformatory
institution there to be detained under the
original commitment.
  * (_jg_) Every person who aids, assists or abets
any child in such escape is liable on summary
conviction to a penalty not exceeding one
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months.
(17) Reformatory institutions mentioned in
this section shall be governed by the laws
enacted by the Legislature of Nova Scotia
respecting such reformatory institutions.
(18) The form set out in Schedule I for
commitment to reformatory institutions under
this section may be used for the purpose
thereof, or forms of a like effect, and when in
use are good and sufficient for such purposes
in law.
(19) The Attorney General for Nova Scotia
may order the person in charge of any
reformatory institution to transfer any boy
detained therein pursuant to this section to
any other reformatory institution to which a
boy may be sentenced under this section ; but
no boy of the Protestant faith shall be
transferred to St. Patrick s Home and no boy
of the Roman Catholic faith shall be
transferred to the Halifax Industrial School ;
the order of the Attorney General is sufficient
authority to the persons in charge of such
reformatory institutions and their agents to
transfer the boy and detain him according to
the exigencies of his sentence and this section
and he shall be deemed to have been sentenced
to the reformatory institution to which he has
been so transferred. R.S., c. 217, s. 92.
9J. The Industrial School shall, at all
times, be open to inspection by the mayor
and aldermen and the stipendiary magistrate
of the city of Halifax, or any of them. R.S.,
c. 217, s. 93.

**92.** The Committee of the Industrial
School are bound to teach and instruct each
boy so sentenced and detained as aforesaid,
in reading and writing, and in arithmetic as
far as the rule of three, and also to teach each
such boy such one of the trades or occupations
that are, from time to time, taught in the
school, as the Committee deems most adapted
to his capabilities. R.S., c. 217, s. 94.

**93.** (1) The Superintendent of the Home
may at any time notify the mayor, warden or
other chief magistrate of any municipality
that no prisoners, beyond those already under
sentence in the Home, will be received therein.
(2) After such notification no boy shall be
sentenced in such municipality to be detained
in the Home until notice has been received
by such mayor, warden or chief magistrate,
from the Superintendent, that prisoners will
again be received in the Home. R.S., c. 217,
s. 95.

**94.** The Home shall, at all times, be open
to inspection by any officer appointed by the
Governor in Council to inspect the same, and,
when and so long as any pecuniary aid is
received from the city of Halifax, it shall be
open to inspection by the mayor, aldermen
and stipendiary magistrate of the city, or any
of them. R.S., c. 217, s. 96.

**95.** The governing body of the Home is
bound to teach and instruct each boy so
sentenced and detained as aforesaid in reading
and writing, and in arithmetic to the end of
the rule of three, and also to teach each such
boy such one of the trades or occupations that
are, from time to time, taught in the Home,
as such governing body deems most adapted
to his capabilities. R.S., c. 217, s. 97.

**96.** (1) Where any boy so sentenced and
detained in the Home has, in the opinion of
the governing body of the Home, so conducted
himself during a term of six consecutive
months by good behaviour, diligence and
industry as to warrant his being set at large
and no longer detained in the Home, the
Solicitor General of Canada, or such person
as he appoints to issue such licences, may
issue a licence to such boy to be at large in
(2) The licence may be revoked or altered
at pleasure by the Solicitor General, or by
such person as he appoints as aforesaid.
(3) The Solicitor General may make such
regulations as he sees fit as to the form of
such licences, and conditions of enjoyment
and forfeiture thereof, and for ascertaining
that the conditions are duly complied with.
(4) Upon information on oath that the
holder of any such licence has contravened
any of the conditions thereof, the police court
or stipendiary magistrate of the city of
Halifax may issue a warrant for his arrest,
wherever in Canada he may be, and cause
him to be brought before such court or
magistrate, and upon conviction of such
contravention, shall remand him to the Home,
there to serve the remainder of his original
sentence, with such additional term, not
exceeding one year, as to the court or
magistrate seems proper. R.S., c. 217, s. 98;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.
Good Shepherd Reformatory for Females

**97.** Every judge, stipendiary magistrate or
magistrate in the Province before whom any
female person being a Roman Catholic above
the age of sixteen is convicted of an offence
against the law of Canada, punishable by
imprisonment in a city prison or common
gaol for the term of two months or for any
longer time, may sentence such female person
to an extended or substituted imprisonment
in the Good Shepherd Reformatory at
Halifax, subject to the following conditions:
  * (_a_) if such female person is under the age
of twenty-one years, such extended impris
onment may be until she attains the age of
twenty-one years or for any shorter or
longer term, not less than two and not more
in the whole than four years ; and
(6) if such female person is of the age of
twenty-one years or upwards, such extended
imprisonment may be for any term not less
than one year and not more than two years.
R.S., c. 217, s. 99.
9g. Where any female person who is a
Roman Catholic is convicted in Nova Scotia
of an offence against the law of Canada, and
is sentenced and committed to a city prison
or common gaol, any judge of the Supreme
Court of Nova Scotia in any case arising in
the Province of Nova Scotia, or any judge of
a County Court in any case arising within his
county or district, may summarily examine
and inquire into the circumstances of such
conviction, and may quash sentence to the
city prison or common gaol, and in substitution
thereof sentence such female person under
section 97. R.S., c. 217, s. 100.

**99.** (1) Any female Roman Catholic, con
victed under the Criminal Code of being a
loose, idle or disorderly person or vagrant, or
convicted of an offence under the sections
thereof relating to the summary trial of
indictable offences, may be sentenced to the
Reformatory for any term less than two years.
(2) If any term exceeding six months is
imposed, no fine shall be imposed in addition.
R.S.,c. 217, s. 101.

**100.** Any officer appointed by the Lieu
tenant Governor, or other officer or person,
by his direction or by direction of the judge,
stipendiary magistrate, magistrate or other
lawful authority, may convey to the Reform
atory any convict sentenced, or liable to be
imprisoned therein, and deliver her to the
Superintendent, without any further warrant
than a copy of the sentence, taken from the
minutes of the court before which the offender
was tried and certified by a judge, magistrate
or justice, or the clerk or acting clerk of such
court. R.S., c. 217, s. 102.

**101.** Subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the Superintendent of the Reform
atory shall receive into the Reformatory every
offender legally certified to her as sentenced
to imprisonment therein, and shall there
detain her, subject to all the rules, regulations
discipline thereof, until the term for
she has been sentenced is completed, or
she is otherwise discharged in due course
law. R.S., c. 217, s. 103.

**102.** The Lieutenant Governor may, from
time to time, by warrant signed by the
Provincial Secretary, or by such other officer
as is authorized by the Lieutenant Governor
in that behalf, direct the removal from the
Reformatory back to the city prison or
common gaol, or to any other gaol in Nova
Scotia, of any person removed to the
Reformatory under this Part. R.S., c. 217, s.

**104.**

**103.** The Superintendent of the Reforma
tory, or the keeper of a city prison or common
gaol, having the custody of any offender
ordered to be removed, shall, when required
to do so, deliver up to the constable or other
officer or person who produces the said
warrant, such offender, together with a copy,
attested by the Superintendent, or keeper, of
the sentence and date of conviction of such
offender, as given on the reception of the
offender into the custody of the Superintend
ent or keeper. R.S., c. 217, s. 105.
Provisions Applicable to Reformatory and
Refuge

**104.** (1) The Superintendent of the Good
Shepherd Reformatory or of the Good
Shepherd Industrial Refuge may at any time
notify the mayor, warden or other chief
magistrate of any city, town or other
municipality, that no prisoners beyond those
already under sentence in the Reformatory
or Industrial Refuge will be received therein
from such municipality.
(2) After such notification no person shall
be sentenced in such municipality to be
detained in the Reformatory or Industrial
Refuge until notice has been received by such
mayor, warden or chief magistrate, from the
Superintendent, that prisoners will again be
received in the Reformatory or Refuge. R.S.,
c. 217,8. 106.

**105.** (1) Where any girl sentenced and
the Good Shepherd Industrial Refuge, has,
in the opinion of the Superintendent thereof,
so conducted herself during a term of six
consecutive months by good behaviour, dili
gence and industry as to warrant her being
set at large and no longer detained in the
Refuge, and the police court or stipendiary
magistrate of the city of Halifax concurs with
the Superintendent in recommending the
issue of a licence to such girl to be at large,
then the Solicitor General of Canada, or such
person as he appoints to issue such licence,
may issue a licence to such girl to be at large
in the Province of Nova Scotia, or in such
part thereof as is specified in the licence.
(2) The licence may be revoked or altered
at pleasure by the Solicitor General, or by
such person as he appoints as aforesaid.
(3) The Solicitor General may make such
regulations as he sees fit as to the form of
such licences, the conditions of enjoyment
and forfeiture thereof, and for ascertaining
that such conditions are duly complied with.
(4) Upon information on oath that the
holder of any such licence has contravened
any of the conditions thereof, a judge or
stipendiary magistrate may issue a warrant
for her arrest, wherever in Canada she may
be, and cause her to be brought before such
judge or magistrate, and, upon conviction of
such contravention, shall remand her to such
industrial refuge, there to serve the remainder
of her original sentence, with such additional
term, not exceeding one year, as to such judge
or magistrate seems proper. R.S., c. 217, s.
107; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

# PARTY

## NEW BRUNSWICK
Application of Part

**106.** This Part applies only to the Province
of New Brunswick. R.S., c. 217, s. 108.
Interpretation

**107.** In the sections of this Part relating
to the Good Shepherd Reformatory at
Halifax, in the Province of Nova Scotia,
"court" includes a police or stipendiary
magistrate or justice of the peace. 1959, c. 31,
a. 1.
Industrial Home for Boys

**108.** Where any boy, who, at the time of
his trial, appears to the court to be under the
age of sixteen years, is convicted of an offence
for which a sentence of imprisonment for a
period of three months or longer may be
imposed upon an adult convicted of the like
offence, the court before whom such boy is
convicted may, if satisfied that a due regard
for the material and moral welfare of the boy
manifestly requires that he be committed to
the Boys Industrial Home, established in the
Province, sentence the boy to be imprisoned
in the Boys Industrial Home for such term
as the court thinks fit, not being greater than
the term of imprisonment that could be
imposed upon an adult for the like offence,
and may further sentence the boy to be kept
in the Boys Industrial Home for an indefinite
time after the expiration of the fixed term ;
but the whole period of confinement in the
Boys Industrial Home shall not exceed five
years from the commencement of his impris
onment. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**109.** Where any boy, apparently under the
age of sixteen years, is convicted of an offence
punishable by law on summary conviction,
and thereupon is sentenced and committed to
prison in any common gaol for a period of
not less than fourteen days, any judge of the
Supreme Court or a county court, in any case
occurring within the county or counties for
which he is such judge, may examine and
inquire into the circumstances of such case
and conviction, and when he considers that
the material and moral welfare of the boy
requires such sentence, he may, as an
additional sentence for such offence, sentence
such boy, either forthwith or at the expiration
of his imprisonment in such gaol, to the Boys
Industrial Home, to be detained there for the
purpose of his industrial and moral education
his imprisonment in the common gaol. 1955,
c. 40, s. 1.

**110.** The Lieutenant Governor may
appoint a Parole Committee whose duty it
shall be to inquire from time to time into the
cases of prisoners sentenced to the Boys
Industrial Home, and where as a result of
such inquiry the Parole Committee thinks
proper, it may permit prisoners serving
sentences in the Boys Industrial Home to be
discharged on parole under conditions
approved by the Solicitor General of Canada.
1955, c. 40, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

**111.** The clergymen of all religious
denominations shall, at all convenient hours
and subject to the rules or regulations
governing the Boys Industrial Home, be
admitted therein for the purpose of giving
spiritual advice and instruction to the inmates
therein of their respective denominations.
1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**112.** (1) The chairman of the advisory
board of the Boys Industrial Home may issue
a warrant under his official seal requiring the
sheriff or a constable or other officer to deliver
any boy sentenced to be confined therein to
the Superintendent of the Boys Industrial
Home.
(2) A copy of the sentence of the court,
duly certified by the proper officer, or the
warrant or order of the judge or magistrate
by whom the boy is sentenced to such
confinement, is sufficient authority to the
sheriff, constable or other officer, if he is
directed verbally or otherwise so to do, to
convey the boy to the common gaol of the
county where the sentence is pronounced, and
for the gaoler of such gaol to receive the boy
and retain him until such warrant is presented
to the gaoler. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**113.** (1) Where any respectable or trust
person is willing to undertake the
charge of any boy committed to the Boys
Home, when such boy is over the
age of twelve years, as an apprentice to the
trade or calling of such person, and such boy
confined in the Boys Industrial Home by
of a sentence or order pronounced
under the authority of any Act of the
Parliament of Canada, the Parole Committee
may, with the consent of the parent or
guardian of the boy, and in the name of the
advisory board of the Boys Industrial Home,
bind the said boy to such person for any term
not to extend without his consent, beyond a
term of five years from the commencement of
his imprisonment.
(2) The said advisory board shall thereupon
order that such boy shall be discharged from
the Boys Industrial Home on probation, to
remain so discharged, if his conduct during
the residue of the term of five years, from the
commencement of his imprisonment, contin
ues to be good, and such boy shall be
discharged accordingly.
(3) Any wages reserved in any indenture of
apprenticeship made under this section are
payable to such boy, or to some other person
for his benefit. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.
1 14. The judge of any county court or of
a juvenile court or a magistrate may, upon
satisfactory proof that any boy who was
sentenced under any Act of the Parliament
of Canada, and who has been discharged on
parole, has violated the conditions of his
discharge, order such boy to be recommitted
to the Boys Industrial Home, and thereupon
such boy shall be detained therein under his
original sentence as if he had never been
discharged. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**115.** The Governor General, by warrant
Under his hand mav &amp;gt; at aDV time in his
discretion, on the application of the Attorney
General of the Province of New Brunswick,
cause any boy who is imprisoned in the
Dorchester Penitentiary, or in any gaol in the
Province, for an offence against the law of
Canada, and who is certified by any judge of
the Supreme Court, or of the county court, to
have been, in the opinion of such judge, at
the time of his trial under the age of fifteen
years, to be transferred to the Boys Industrial
Home in the Province, for the remainder of
his term of imprisonment, and for such further
term in addition thereto as the Governor
General, on the report and recommendation
such judge, deems expedient ; but the whole
term of imprisonment shall not exceed five
from the commencement of the impris
onment in such penitentiary or gaol. 1955, c.
40, s. 1.

**116.** The Governor General, by warrant
under his hand, may, at any time in his
discretion, on the application of the Attorney
General of the Province of New Brunswick,
cause any boy who is imprisoned in the Boys
Industrial Home under sentence for an offence
against any law of Canada, and for a term of
years for which he might have been sentenced
to imprisonment in the penitentiary, to be
transferred to the Dorchester Penitentiary for
the remainder of his term of imprisonment.
1955, c. 40, s. 1.
New Brunswick Central Reformatory

**117.** (1) Every person confined in any one
of the common gaols of the Province under
sentence of imprisonment for any offence
against the laws of Canada may, by warrant
signed by the Inspector of Penal Institutions
or by such other officer as is authorized by
the Lieutenant Governor in that behalf, be
transferred from such common gaol to the
New Brunswick Central Reformatory, there
to be imprisoned for the unexpired portion of
the term of imprisonment to which such
person was originally sentenced.
(2) Such person shall thereupon be impris
oned in the New Brunswick Central Reforma
tory for the residue of such term unless in the
meantime he is lawfully discharged or
removed and is subject to all the rules and
regulations of the New Brunswick Central
Reformatory. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.
1 18. The Superintendent of the New
Brunswick Central Reformatory shall receive
every offender so transferred and every
offender legally certified to him as sentenced
to imprisonment therein, and shall detain
him, subject to all the rules, regulations and
discipline of the institution, until the term
for which he has been sentenced is completed
or until he is otherwise paroled or discharged
in due course of law. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**119.** (1) The Lieutenant Governor may,
from time to time, authorize, direct or sanction
the employment upon any specific work or
duty outside or beyond the limits of the New
Brunswick Central Reformatory of any of the
prisoners confined or sentenced to be impris
oned therein or transferred thereto, as herein
provided.
(2) All such prisoners are, during the
employment mentioned in subsection (1),
subject to such rules, regulations and discipline
as are approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in that behalf. 1955, c. 40, s. 1.

**120.** The Inspector of Penal Institutions,
or such other officer as is authorized by the
Lieutenant Governor, may, from time to time
by warrant, direct the removal of any offender
from the New Brunswick Central Reformatory
to any common gaol of the Province, or from
any common gaol of the Province to any
other common gaol of the Province. 1955, c.
40, s. 1.
Good Shepherd Reformatory, Halifax

**121.** Whenever any woman or girl, who is
a Roman Catholic, is convicted in the Province
of New Brunswick of an offence against any
law of Canada punishable by imprisonment
for a maximum term of less than two years,
the court may sentence such woman or girl to
imprisonment in the Good Shepherd Reform
atory in the city of Halifax in the Province
of Nova Scotia instead of the common gaol
or other prison. 1959, c. 31, s. 2.

**122.** (1) Every judge, stipendiary magis-
trate or magistrate before whom any female
person being a Roman Catholic is convicted
in the Province of New Brunswick of an
offence against the law of Canada punishable
by imprisonment in a city prison or common
gaol for a term of two months or for any
longer term, may sentence such female person
to an extended or substituted imprisonment
in the Good Shepherd Reformatory in the
city of Halifax in the Province of Nova
Scotia, subject to the following conditions:
  * (_a_) if such female person is under the age
of twenty-one years, such extended impris
onment may be until she attains the age of
twenty-one years, or for any shorter or
longer term not less than two and not more
in the whole than four years ; and
(6) if such female person is of the age of
twenty-one years or upwards, such extended
imprisonment may be for any term not less
than one year and not more than two years.
(2) Where any female person who is a
Roman Catholic is convicted in the Province
of New Brunswick of an offence against the
law of Canada and is sentenced and committed
to a city prison or common gaol, any judge
of the Supreme Court of New Brunswick in
any case occurring in his province, or any
judge of a county court in any case occurring
within his county or district, may summarily
examine and inquire into the circumstances
of such conviction and may quash such
sentence to the said city prison or common
gaol, and, in substitution thereof, sentence
such female person under this section.
(3) Where any female person, sentenced to
the Good Shepherd Reformatory under this
section, escapes from such institution, she
may at any time be apprehended without
warrant and brought back to the said
institution, there to be detained under the
original commitment. R.S., c. 217, s. 122 ; 1959,
c. 31, s. 3.

**123.** The Superintendent or Keeper of the
Good Shepherd Reformatory may at any
time notify the mayor, warden or other chief
magistrate of any municipality within the
Province of New Brunswick, that no such
female persons, beyond those already under
sentence in the Good Shepherd Reformatory,
will be received therein, and after such
notification, no such female person shall be
sentenced in such municipality to the Good
Shepherd Reformatory until notice has been
received by such mayor, warden or chief
magistrate from the Superintendent or Keeper
that persons will be again received in the
Good Shepherd Reformatory. R.S., c. 217,

**123.**

**124.** The Attorney General of New Bruns
may from time to time on application
from the Superintendent or Keeper of the
Good Shepherd Reformatory, by order, direct
the removal from that Reformatory of any
female person committed thereto under this
Act from the Province of New Brunswick,
back to a city prison or common gaol for the
balance of the unexpired portion of the
maximum sentence originally imposed on
such female. R.S., c. 217, s. 124.

**125.** (1) Whenever any such woman or girl
is convicted in the city or county of Saint
John, under the Criminal Code, of
  * (_a_) keeping a common bawdy house or of
being found in a common bawdy house,
without lawful excuse, or of being an inmate
of a common bawdy house,
(6) being a loose, idle or disorderly person
or vagrant, or
  * (_c_) any offence triable under the sections of
the Criminal Code relating to summary trial
of indictable offences,
she may be sentenced to imprisonment in the
Good Shepherd Reformatory for any term
less than two years.
(2) If a term exceeding six months is
imposed, no fine shall be imposed in addition.
R.S., c. 217, s. 125.

**126.** Any officer appointed by the Lieu
tenant Governor, or other officer or person by
his direction or by direction of the court or
other lawful authority, may convey to the
Good Shepherd Reformatory any convict
sentenced to be imprisoned therein, and
deliver her to the Superintendent or Keeper
thereof, without any further warrant than a
copy of the sentence, taken from the minutes
of the court before which the offender was
tried and certified by a judge, or the clerk, or
acting clerk of such court, together with a
certificate from a duly qualified medical
practitioner that such female person is free
from infectious and contagious diseases, and
the Superintendent or Keeper thereof may
refuse to admit any convict sentenced to be
imprisoned in the Good Shepherd Reforma-
certificate accompanies the copy of the
R.S., c. 217, s. 126.

**127.** The Superintendent or Keeper of the
Good Shepherd Reformatory shall receive
therein every offender legally certified to her
as sentenced to imprisonment therein, and
shall detain her there, subject to all the rules,
regulations and discipline thereof, until the
term for which she has been sentenced is
completed, or until she is otherwise discharged
in due course of law. R.S., c. 217, s. 127.

## PART VI

## PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
Application of Part

**128.** This Part applies only to the Province
of Prince Edward Island. R.S., c. 217, s. 128.
Reformatory for Juvenile Offenders

**129.** (1) As soon as a proclamation has
been issued by the Lieutenant Governor of
the Province of Prince Edward Island declar
ing that a reformatory for juvenile offenders
has been established and made ready for the
confinement of prisoners, any person, appar
ently under the age of sixteen years, who is
convicted in the Province before the Supreme
Court or a stipendiary magistrate, of any
offence for which, by law, he is liable to
imprisonment, may, by the Court or stipen
diary magistrate, be sentenced to be detained
in that reformatory for any term not exceeding
five years and not less than two years, as to
the Court or magistrate appears proper.
(2) Until an industrial school or reformatory
is established in the Province, the Lieutenant
Governor of the Province may arrange for the
use of industrial schools or reformatories in
Act, means the industrial school
reformatory so arranged for outside the
R.S., c. 217, s. 129.

**130.** Any person apparently under the age
of sixteen years who is thereafter arrested on
a charge of having committed any offence
within the Province, not capital, shall not,
while awaiting trial for such offence, be
detained in any common gaol, but shall be
detained in such reformatory. R.S., c. 217,
s. 130.
13 1. Where any offender, detained in such
reformatory, wilfully neglects to conform to
the rules thereof, he may, upon summary
conviction, be imprisoned in the common
gaol, with hard labour, for any term not
exceeding three months ; and at the expiration
of his term of imprisonment he shall be
brought back to the reformatory, there to be
detained during a term equal to so much of
his term of imprisonment as remained unex-
pired at the time of his being sent to the
prison. R.S., c. 217, s. 131.
Transfer of Offenders

**132.** The Deputy Attorney General of
Prince Edward Island or such other Crown
officer of the Province as is authorized by the
Lieutenant Governor of the Province, may
from time to time by warrant, direct the
transfer of any offender from any common
gaol, prison farm or correctional institution
of the Province to any other common gaol,
prison farm or correctional institution of the
Province. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 114.

## PART VII

## MANITOBA
Application of Part

**133.** This Part applies only to the Province
of Manitoba. R.S., c. 217, s. 135.
Reformatory for Boys and Girls

**134.** Where any boy or girl, who, at the
time of his or her trial, appears to the court
to be under the age of sixteen years, is
convicted of an offence for which a sentence
of imprisonment for a period of three months
or longer may be imposed upon an adult
convicted of the like offence, the court before
which such boy or girl is convicted may, if
satisfied that a due regard for the material
and moral welfare of the boy or girl manifestly
requires that he or she should be committed
to some reformatory or industrial home for
boys or girls in the Province of Manitoba,
sentence the boy or girl to be imprisoned in
any such reformatory or industrial home duly
established as such by and under the authority
of the Legislature of the Province or approved
as such reformatory or industrial home by
proclamation of the Lieutenant Governor
under the said authority for such term as the
court thinks fit, not being greater than the
term of imprisonment that could be imposed
upon an adult for the like offence, and may
further sentence such boy or girl to be kept in
such reformatory or industrial home for an
indefinite time after the expiration of such
fixed term; but the whole period of confine
ment in such reformatory or industrial home
shall not exceed five years from the com
mencement of the imprisonment. R.S., c. 217,
s. 136.

**135.** Where any boy or girl apparently
un der the age of sixteen years is convicted of
an offence punishable by law on summary
conviction, and thereupon is sentenced and
committed to prison in any common gaol for
a period of not less than fourteen days, any
judge of any one of the superior courts, or
any judge of the county court of the judicial
district in which the conviction is had, may
examine and inquire into the circumstances
of the case and conviction, and may, as an
additional sentence for such offence, when he
considers that the material and moral welfare
of the boy or girl so requires, sentence such
boy or girl to be sent either forthwith or at
the expiration of his or her imprisonment in
such gaol, to any such reformatory or
industrial home, to be detained there for the
purpose of his or her industrial and moral
education, for an indefinite period, not
exceeding in the whole five years from the
commencement of his or her imprisonment in
common gaol. R.S., c. 217, s. 137.

**136.** Every boy or girl so sentenced shall
be detained in the reformatory or industrial
home until the expiration of the fixed term,
if any, of his or her sentence, unless discharged
sooner by lawful authority, and thereafter
shall, subject to the provisions hereof and to
any regulations made as hereinbefore provid
ed, be detained in the reformatory or
industrial home for a period not to exceed
five years from the commencement of his or
her imprisonment, for the purpose of his or
her industrial and moral education. R.S., c.
217,3. 138.

**137.** Where any girl or woman is convicted
in Manitoba of any offence under the Criminal
Code for which a sentence of imprisonment
for a period of three months or longer may
be imposed, and the court before which such
girl or woman is convicted is satisfied that a
due regard for the material and moral welfare
of the girl or woman manifestly requires that
she should be committed to some reformatory
or industrial home for girls or women in the
Province, then such court may, notwithstand
ing any provisions of the Criminal Code as to
the duration of the term of imprisonment for
such offence, sentence the girl or woman to
be imprisoned in any such reformatory or
industrial home in Manitoba duly established
as such by and under the authority of the
Legislature of the Province, or approved as
such reformatory or industrial home by
proclamation of the Lieutenant Governor
under such authority for such term as the
court thinks fit, not exceeding in all three
years. R.S., c. 217, s. 139.

**138.** A copy of the sentence of the court,
duly certified by the proper officer, or the
warrant or order of the judge or other
magistrate by whom any woman or boy or
girl is sentenced to confinement in the
reformatory or industrial home, is sufficient
authority to the sheriff, constable or other
officer who is directed, verbally or otherwise,
to do so, to convey such woman or boy or girl
to such reformatory or industrial home, or to
the common gaol of the county where the
sentence is pronounced, and for the gaoler of
gaol to receive and detain such woman
or boy or girl until a person, lawfully
authorized, requires the delivery of the woman
or boy or girl for removal to the reformatory
or industrial home. R.S., c. 217, s. 140.

**139.** (1) The Attorney General of Manito
ba or his deputy may direct by warrant the
removal of a person imprisoned for the
commission of an indictable offence in any
common gaol in the Province to any other
common gaol in the Province, whenever he
deems it expedient to do so, and a person
transferred pursuant to this section shall be
detained in the common gaol to which he is
transferred for the unexpired portion of the
term of imprisonment to which he was
originally sentenced, unless in the meantime
he is again transferred or is lawfully dis
charged.
(2) The keeper of any common gaol, having
the custody of any offender ordered to be
removed under this section, shall, when
required to do so, deliver up to the constable
or other officer or person who produces the
warrant, such offender, together with a copy,
attested by the keeper, of the sentence and
date of conviction of the offender as given on
the reception of the offender into the custody
of the keeper. 1959, c. 31, s. 4.

## PART VIII

## BRITISH COLUMBIA
Application of Part

**140.** This Part applies only to the Province
of British Columbia. R.S., c. 217, s. 141.

**141.** Where any girl who, at the time of
her trial, appears to the court to be under the
age of sixteen years, is convicted of an offence
against the laws of Canada for which a
sentence of imprisonment for a term of one
month or longer but less than five years may
be imposed upon an adult convicted of the
like offence, and the court before which the
is convicted is satisfied that a due regard
her material and moral welfare requires
she be committed to the Industrial Home
Girls of British Columbia, such court may
such girl to be imprisoned therein
for such fixed term as the court thinks fit, not
being greater than the term of imprisonment
which could be imposed upon an adult for
the like offence. R.S., c. 217, s. 142.

**142.** Where any girl, apparently under the
age of sixteen years, is convicted of any
offence against the laws of Canada punishable
on summary conviction, and thereupon is
sentenced and committed to prison in any
common gaol for a term of not less than
fourteen days, any judge of one of the
superior courts, or any judge of a county
court, may examine and inquire into the
circumstances of such case and conviction,
and if he considers the material and moral
welfare of the girl requires it, he may, as an
additional sentence for such offence, sentence
such girl to be sent either forthwith or at the
expiration of her imprisonment in such gaol,
to the Industrial Home for Girls, to be
detained there for the purpose of her industrial
and moral education for an indefinite period,
not exceeding in the whole five years from
the commencement of her imprisonment in
the common gaol. R.S., c. 217, s. 143.

**143.** Every girl so sentenced shall be
detained in the Industrial Home for Girls
until the expiration of the fixed term of her
sentence, unless discharged sooner by lawful
authority; and such girl thereafter shall, and
every girl sentenced under section 142 shall,
subject, in both cases, to this Part, and to any
regulations made as in this Part hereafter
provided, be detained in the Home for a term
not exceeding five years from the commence
ment of her imprisonment, for the purpose of
her industrial and moral education. R.S., c.
217, s. 144.

**144.** The Lieutenant Governor may at any
time in his discretion order that any girl
detained in such Industrial Home for Girls
under a summary conviction be discharged.
R.S.,c. 217,8. 145.

**145.** (1) Where any respectable and trust
worthy person is willing to undertake the
charge of any girl committed to the Industrial
Home for Girls as an apprentice to the trade
or calling of such person, or for the purpose
of domestic service, and such girl is confined
in the Industrial Home for Girls by virtue of
a sentence or order pronounced under the
authority of any Act of the Parliament of
Canada, the superintendent or other chief
officer of the Industrial Home for Girls, with
the consent of the Attorney General of British
Columbia, may bind the said girl to such
person for any term not to extend without
her consent beyond a term of five years from
the commencement of her imprisonment.
(2) The Attorney General of British
Columbia shall thereupon order that such girl
shall be discharged from the Industrial Home
for Girls on probation, to remain so discharged
provided her conduct during the residue of
the term of five years from the commencement
of her imprisonment continues to be good,
and such girl shall be discharged accordingly.
(3) Any wages reserved in any indenture of
apprenticeship made under this section are
payable to such girl or to some person for her
benefit.
(4) No girl shall be discharged under this
section, except on probation as aforesaid,
until after the fixed term of her sentence has
elapsed, unless by the authority of the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 217, s. 146.

**146.** (1) Any girl confined in any common
gaol of the Province under sentence of
imprisonment for any offence against the
laws of Canada may, by the direction of the
Attorney General of British Columbia, be
transferred from such common gaol to the
Industrial Home for Girls, to be imprisoned
there for the unexpired portion of the term of
imprisonment to which such girl was originally
sentenced.
(2) Such girl shall thereupon be imprisoned
in the Industrial Home for Girls for the
residue of such term unless in the meantime
she is lawfully discharged or removed, and
shall be subject to all the rules and regulations
the institution. R.S., c. 217, s. 147.

**147.** In order to encourage good behaviour
and industry among the girls in the Industrial
Home for Girls, the Lieutenant Governor
may make rules under which any girl
imprisoned in the Industrial Home for Girls
shall be entitled, by good conduct and
industry, to earn a remission of a portion of
the time for which she is sentenced. R.S., c.
217, s. 148.

**148.** The judge of any county court or any
police or stipendiary magistrate may, on
satisfactory proof that any girl who has been
discharged on probation, or has been appren
ticed, has violated the conditions of her
discharge or the provisions of the indenture
of apprenticeship, order such girl to be
recommitted to the Industrial Home for Girls,
there to be confined under her original
sentence. R.S., c. 217, s. 149.

**149.** (1) Where a girl escapes from the
Industrial Home for Girls, or neglects to
attend thereat, or absents herself without
consent from the service of the person to
whom she may have been apprenticed, she
may at any time before the expiration of the
period of detention or apprenticeship, as the
case may be, be apprehended without warrant,
and may be brought back to the said
institution or such person, there to be detained
during a period equal to so much of her
period of detention or apprenticeship as
remained unexpired at the time of her escape.
(2) Every person who aids or abets any girl
in such escape is liable, upon summary
conviction, to a penalty not exceeding twenty-
five dollars. R.S., c. 217, s. 150.

**150.** Every court in the Province of British
Columbia, before which any person apparent
ly under the age of twenty-two years is
convicted of an offence against the laws of
Canada, punishable by imprisonment in the
common gaol for a term of three months, or
for any longer term, may sentence such person
to imprisonment for a term of not less than
three months and for an indeterminate period
under the age of eighteen years, in Haney
Correctional Institution,
(6) in the case of any other male person to
whom this section applies, in Oakalla Prison
Farm or in New Haven, or
  * (_c_) in the case of a female person to whom
this section applies, in a place designated
by the Lieutenant Governor for such female
persons
instead of the common gaol of the county or
judicial district where the offence was com
mitted or was tried, and such person shall
thereupon be imprisoned accordingly until he
is lawfully discharged or paroled pursuant to
section 151 or transferred according to law,
and shall be subject to all the rules and
regulations of the institution as may be
approved from time to time by the Lieutenant
Governor in that behalf. 1952-53, c. 7, s. 2;
1968-69, c. 38, s. 115.
is j. The Lieutenant Governor may
appoint a Board of Parole for the Province
of British Columbia whose duty it is to
inquire from time to time into the cases of
prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for
indeterminate periods, and where the Board
thinks proper, it may permit prisoners serving
such sentences to be paroled under conditions
approved by the Solicitor General of Canada,
and when the terms on which such prisoners
were paroled have been complied with, the
Board may recommend for the consideration
of the Solicitor General of Canada the final
discharge of such prisoners. 1952-53, c. 7, s. 2;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 37; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 115.

**152.** (1) The Inspector of Gaols or such
other officer as is authorized by the Lieutenant
Governor in that behalf from time to time
may by warrant direct the removal of a person
imprisoned in Oakalla Prison Farm to New
Haven, or of a person imprisoned in New
Haven to Oakalla Prison Farm, whenever he
deems it expedient to do so, and a person
transferred pursuant to this section shall be
is again transferred or is lawfully dis
(2) In this section the expression "term of
imprisonment" includes the definite term of
imprisonment and the indefinite period
thereafter to which a person was originally
sentenced.
(3) The Inspector of Gaols, or such other
person as is authorized by the Lieutenant
Governor for that purpose from time to time,
may direct by warrant the removal of a person
imprisoned in any of the common gaols of
the Province to the prison known as the
Haney Correctional Institution, or of a person
imprisoned in the Haney Correctional Insti
tution to any other common gaol in the
Province, whenever he deems it expedient to
do so, and a person transferred pursuant to
this subsection shall be detained in the prison
or institution to which he is transferred for
the unexpired portion of the term of impris
onment to which he was originally sentenced,
unless in the meantime he is again transferred
or is lawfully discharged. 1952-53, c. 7, s. 2;
1957, c. 34, s. 1. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 115.

**153.** Sections 150, 151 and 152 do not apply
to a child as defined in the Juvenile Delinquents
Act unless the child has under section 9 of the
Juvenile Delinquents Act been ordered to be
proceeded against by indictment in the
ordinary courts. 1952-53, c. 7, s. 2.

**154.** In this Part the expression "New
Haven" means the institution established in
British Columbia for the reclamation of
juvenile offenders known as New Haven and
situated on Lot 164, Group 1 , New Westminster
District in that Province. 1952-53, c. 7, s. 2.

## PART IX

## NOVA SCOTIA, NEW BRUNSWICK AND

## PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

**155.** Sections 156 to 161 apply to the
Provinces of New Brunswick and Prince
to the Provinces of Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. R.S., c.
s. 155.

**156.** Where any girl who is a Protestant,
and who at the time of her trial appears to
the court to be under the age of sixteen years,
is convicted of an offence against the laws of
Canada, for which a sentence of imprisonment
for a term of one month or longer, but less
than five years, may be imposed upon an
adult convicted of a like offence, the court
before which the girl is convicted may sentence
such girl to be imprisoned in the Maritime
Home for Girls at Truro for such fixed term
as the court thinks fit, not being greater than
the term of imprisonment that can be imposed
upon an adult for a like offence, and may
further sentence the said girl to be kept in the
Maritime Home for Girls for an indefinite
time after the expiration of such fixed term ;
but the whole term of confinement in the
Maritime Home for Girls shall not exceed
five years from the commencement of her
imprisonment. R.S., c. 217, s. 156.
J57. Where any girl who is a Protestant,
wno at tne time of her trial appears to
the court to be under the age of sixteen years,
is convicted of an offence against the laws of
Canada punishable on summary conviction,
and thereupon is sentenced and committed to
prison in any common gaol for a term of not
less than fourteen days, any judge of the
Supreme Court of New Brunswick or Prince
Edward Island, respectively, in any case
occurring in his province, or any judge of a
county court, in any case occurring within his
county, or district, may examine and inquire
into the circumstances of such case and
conviction, and may, as an additional sentence
for such offence, sentence such girl to be sent
either forthwith, or at the expiration of her
imprisonment in such gaol, to the Maritime
Home for Girls, to be detained there for the
purpose of her industrial and moral education
for an indefinite period ; but the whole term
of confinement in the Maritime Home for
Girls shall not exceed five years from the
commencement of her imprisonment in the
common gaol. R.S., c. 217, s. 157.

**158.** Every girl so sentenced shall be
detained in the Maritime Home for Girls
until the expiration of the fixed term of her
sentence, unless discharged sooner by lawful
authority ; and every girl thereafter shall, and
every girl sentenced under section 157 shall,
subject in both cases to this Part, and to any
regulations made as in this Part hereinafter
provided, be detained in the Maritime Home
for Girls for a term not exceeding five years
from the commencement of her imprisonment
for the purpose of her industrial and moral
education. R.S., c. 217, s. 158.

**159.** (1) Where any respectable and trust
worthy person is willing to undertake the
charge of any girl committed to the Maritime
Home for Girls, as an apprentice to the trade
or calling of such person, or for the purpose
of domestic service, the Superintendent of the
Maritime Home for Girls may, with the
consent and in the name of the Superintendent
of Neglected Children or other officer named
by the government of the province in which
the said girl was convicted, bind the said girl
to such person for any term not to extend,
without her consent, beyond a term of five
years from the commencement of her impris
onment.
(2) The Superintendent of Neglected Chil
dren or other officer named by the government
of the province from which the said girl was
committed shall thereupon order that such
girl be discharged from the Maritime Home
for Girls on probation, to remain so dis
charged ; if her conduct during the residue of
the term of five years from the commencement
of her imprisonment continues to be good,
and such girl shall be discharged accordingly,
subject however to be returned to the Maritime
Home for Girls for the unexpired portion of
the term of her original commitment on order
of the Superintendent of Neglected Children
or other officer named by the government of
the province in which the said girl was
convicted.
(3) Any wages reserved in any indenture of
apprenticeship made under this section are
payable to such girl or to some other person

**160.** No girl shall be discharged under
159, except on probation, as aforesaid,
until after the fixed term of her sentence has
elapsed, unless by the authority of the
Governor General. R.S., c. 217, s. 160.

**161.** The Superintendent of the Maritime
Home for Girls, and the other persons in
charge thereof, are bound to teach and instruct
each girl so sentenced and detained in the
Maritime Home for Girls as aforesaid, in
reading and writing and in arithmetic to the
end of simple proportion, and also to teach
each such girl such one of the trades or
occupations taught in the Maritime Home for
Girls as they deem most adapted to her
capabilities. R.S., c. 217, s. 161.

**162.** (1) Every judge, stipendiary magis
trate or magistrate before whom any female
person being a Protestant above the age of
sixteen is convicted of an offence against the
law of Canada punishable by imprisonment
in a city prison or common gaol for the term
of two months or for any longer term, may
sentence such female person to an extended
or substituted imprisonment in the Inter-
Provincial Home for Young Women at
Coverdale, in the County of Albert in the
Province of New Brunswick, subject to the
following conditions:
  * (_a_) if such female person is under the age
of twenty-one years, such extended impris
onment may be until she attains the age of
twenty-one years, or for any shorter or
longer term not less than two and not more
in the whole than four years ; and
(6) if such female person is of the age of
twenty-one years or upwards, such extended
imprisonment may be for any term not less
than one year and not more than two years.
(2) Where any female person, who is a
Protestant, is convicted in Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick or Prince Edward Island of an
offence against the law of Canada and is
sentenced and committed to a city prison or
to the county gaol, any judge of the Supreme
his county or district, may summarily examine
and inquire into the circumstances of such
conviction and may quash such sentence to
the said city prison or county gaol and in
substitution thereof, sentence such female
person under this section.
(3) Where any female person, sentenced to
the Inter-Provincial Home for Young Women
under this section, escapes from such institu
tion, she may at any time be apprehended
without warrant and brought back to the said
institution, there to be detained under the
original commitment. R.S., c. 217, s. 162.

**163.** The Superintendent or Manager of
the said Inter-Provincial Home for Young
Women may, at any time, notify the mayor,
warden or other chief magistrate of any
municipality within either the Province of
New Brunswick or Prince Edward Island, that
no such female persons, beyond those already
under sentence in the Inter-Provincial Home
for Young Women, will be received therein,
and after such notification, no such female
person shall be sentenced in such municipality
to the Inter-Provincial Home for Young
Women, until notice has been received by
such mayor, warden or chief magistrate from
the Superintendent that prisoners will be
again received in the Inter-Provincial Home
for Young Women. R.S., c. 217, s. 163.

**164.** Any police officer or any person
whom the court or magistrate may direct,
may convey to the Inter-Provincial Home for
Young Women any female person sentenced
to imprisonment therein under this Act and
deliver her to the Superintendent thereof,
with a warrant of commitment, as by this Act
provided, together with a certificate from a
duly qualified medical practitioner that such
female person is free from infections and
contagious diseases and the Superintendent
of the Inter-Provincial Home for Young
Women may refuse to admit any female
person sentenced under this Act unless such
medical certificate accompanies the warrant
of commitment. R.S., c. 217, s. 164.

**165.** The Inter- Provincial Home for Young
Women shall be opened to inspection at all
times by any officer designated
for that purpose by the Lieutenant Governor
of New Brunswick, Nova Scotia or Prince
Edward Island, and the Board of Management
of the Inter-Provincial Home for Young
Women shall be bound to teach and instruct
all such female persons, sentenced and
detained in the Inter-Provincial Home for
Young Women under this Act, and to teach
such trades or occupations as may from time
to time be taught in the institution, with a
view to the reformation of such female
persons. R.S., c. 217, s. 165.

**166.** The Attorney General of Nova Scotia,
New Brunswick or Prince Edward Island may,
from time to time, on application from the
Superintendent of the Inter-Provincial Home
for Young Women, by order, direct the
removal from the Inter-Provincial Home for
Young Women of any female person commit
ted thereto under this Act from the province
of which he is Attorney General, back to a
city prison or common gaol for the balance of
the unexpired portion of the maximum
sentence originally imposed on such female.
R.S., c. 217, s. 166.

**167.** 167. (i) (1) jf If anv any female female person person sentenced sentenced
and ,) xj*;j detained in ; *i the !*.. Inter-Provincial r&amp;gt;,,.;-,,-i u~ Home
for Young Women has, in the opinion of the
Superintendent thereof, so conducted herself
during a term of six consecutive months by
good behaviour, diligence and industry as to
warrant her being set at large and no longer
being detained in the said Home, and if the
magistrate or deputy magistrate for the
County of Albert concurs with the Superin
tendent in recommending the issue of a
licence to such female person to be at large,
the Solicitor General of Canada or any person
authorized by him in that behalf may issue a
licence to such female person to be at large in
the Province of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick
or Prince Edward Island, or in any part
thereof specified in the licence.
(2) Any licence issued pursuant to subsec-
(1) may be revoked or altered at pleasure
the Solicitor General, or by any person
authorized by him in that behalf.
(3) The Solicitor General may make such
regulations as he sees fit, prescribing the form
of licences, the conditions of enjoyment and
forfeiture thereof, and for ascertaining that
such conditions are duly complied with.
(4) Upon information on oath that any
female person who is licensed under subsection
(1) to be at large has contravened any of the
conditions of such licence, any judge, stipen
diary magistrate or magistrate in Canada
may issue a warrant for her arrest, wherever
in Canada she may be, and cause her to be
brought before such judge, stipendiary mag
istrate or magistrate for trial ; if convicted of
such contravention she shall be remanded to
the Inter-Provincial Home for Young Women,
to serve there the remainder of her original
sentence, with such additional term, not
exceeding one year, as to the judge, stipendi
ary magistrate or magistrate seems proper.
R.S., c. 333, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

**168.** The form set out in Schedule II for
commitment to the Inter-Provincial Home for
Young Women under this Act, may be used
for the purposes thereof, or a form of like
effect, and when in use is good and sufficient
for such purposes in law. R.S., c. 217, s. 167.

# PARTX

## ALBERTA
Application of Part

**169.** This Part applies only to ihe Province
of Alberta. R.S., c. 217, s. 168.
Interpretation

**170.** In this Part "certified institution"
means any industrial school or other institu
tion in the Province of Alberta certified under
The Gaols and Prisons Act of the Province of
Alberta as a gaol, reformatory or other
institution. R.S., c. 217, s. 169.
The Bowden Institution

**111.** (1) Every person confined in any one
^ tne comr&on gaols of the Province under
of imprisonment for any offence
against the laws of Canada or of the Province
may, by warrant signed by the inspector of
gaols or by such other officer as is authorized
by the Lieutenant Governor in that behalf,
be transferred from such common gaol to the
Bowden Institution or to a certified institu
tion, to be imprisoned there for the unexpired
portion of the term of imprisonment to which
such person was originally sentenced.
(2) Such person shall thereupon be impris
oned in the Bowden Institution or other
certified institution for the residue of such
term unless in the meantime he is lawfully
discharged or removed, and shall be subject
to all the rules and regulations of the Bowden
Institution or other certified institution, as
the case may be. R.S., c. 217, s. 170.

**172.** The superintendent or warden of the
Bowden Institution or other certified institu
tion, as the case may be, shall receive every
offender so transferred and every offender
legally certified to him as sentenced to
imprisonment therein, and shall detain him
subject to all the rules and regulations and
discipline of their respective institutions until
the term for which he has been sentenced is
completed or until he is otherwise paroled or
discharged according to law. R.S., c. 217,
s. 171.

**173.** The Lieutenant Governor may, from
time to time, authorize, direct or sanction the
employment upon any specific work or duty
outside or beyond the limits of the Bowden
Institution or other certified institution of
any of the prisoners confined or sentenced to
be imprisoned therein or transferred thereto,
as herein provided. R.S., c. 217, s. 172.

**174.** The inspector of gaols, the superin
tendent or warden of the Bowden Institution
or other certified institution, or such other
officer as is authorized by the Lieutenant
Governor, as the case may be, may from time
to time, by warrant, direct the removal of any
offender from the Bowden Institution or other
certified institution to any of the common
gaols of the Province or to any other certified
institution within the Province. R.S., c. 217,
s. 173.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE I

# FORM OF COMMITMENT
CANADA IN THE MATTER OF THE
PROVINCE OF NOVA SCOTIA PRISONS AND REFORMA
COUNTY OP TORIES ACT
WARRANT COMMITTING CHILD TO REFORMATORY INSTITUTION
To all or any one of the constables and other peace officers
of the said County, and to the Superintendent or manager or
person in charge thereof of the at in
the said Province, a reformatory institution :
WHEREAS a male (or female) child of the
faith, was on this day duly convicted before me , a
in and for the of for that
the said child on or about the day of
did unlawfully
Upon due inquiry made it has been found that the religious
denomination to which the said child belongs is the....
faith.
IT WAS THEREFORE ADJUDGED that the said child for the said
offence should be imprisoned in the said reformatory institu
tion for the term of , subject to the laws and
regulations governing reformatory institutions in the said
Province of Nova Scotia.
THIS is THEREFORE TO COMMAND YOU the said constables and
peace officers or any one of you for the said County to take
the said child and safely convey h to the said reformatory
institution, and there deliver h to the superintendent, man
ager or person in charge of the said reformatory institution,
together with this precept; and I do hereby command you the
said superintendent, manager or person in charge to receive the
said child into your care and custody in the said reformatory
institution, and there to imprison h for the said term, unless
sooner discharged by lawful authority, and for your so doing
this shall be your sufficient warrant.
GIVEN under my hand this day of in
the year of Our Lord 19 , at , in the County of
in the Province of Nova Scotia.
R.S., c. 217, s. 92.
PROVINCE OF PRISONS AND REFORMA
COUNTY OF TORIES ACT
WARRANT COMMITTING FEMALE PERSONS TO THE INTER-PROVIN
CIAL HOME FOR YOUNG WOMEN, COVERDALE, COUNTY OF ALBERT,
PROVINCE OF NEW BRUNSWICK
To and
To all or any one of the constables and other police officers
of the said County; and to the Superintendent or person in
charge of the Inter-Provincial Home for Young Women at
Coverdale, in the County of Albert, in the Province of New
Brunswick, a reformatory institution:
WHEREAS, ..... a female person over the age of
sixteen years, of the Protestant faith, was on this day duly
convicted before me a , in and for the
of for that the said on or
about the day of.... .did unlawfully
IT WAS THEREFORE ADJUDGED that the said .. for the
said offence should be imprisoned in the said Inter-Provincial
Home for Young Women at Coverdale, in the County of
Albert, in the Province of New Brunswick, a reformatory
institution, for subject to the laws and regulations
governing the said reformatory institution.
THIS IS THEREFORE TO COMMAND YOU the Said
or the said constables or peace officers, or any one of you for
the said County, to take the said and safely convey
her to the said reformatory institution and there deliver her
to the Superintendent or person in charge thereof, together
with this receipt and a certificate that the said ....is
free of infections and contagious diseases; and I do hereby
command you, the said Superintendent or person in charge
of the said reformatory institution to receive the said
into your care and custody in the said reformatory
institution, and there to imprison her for the said term, unless
sooner discharged by lawful authority, and for your so doing
this shall be your sufficient warrant.
GIVEN under my hand this day of
in the year of Our Lord 19 , at in the County
of in the Province of
R.S., c. 217, s. 167.
