
# CHAPTER P-22
An Act to provide for privileges and immuni
ties in respect of the United Nations and
international organizations. 1964-65, c.47,
s. 1.

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Privileges
and Immunities (International Organizations)
Act. 1964-65, c. 47, s. 2.

**2.** The Governor in Council may authorize
the accession of Canada to the Convention
on the Privileges and Immunities of the
United Nations (in this Act called the
"Convention"), set out in the schedule, with
the reservation that exemption from taxation
imposed by any law in Canada on salaries
and emoluments shall not extend to a
Canadian citizen residing or ordinarily resi
dent in Canada, and may make such orders
as appear to him to be necessary for that
purpose and for the purpose of carrying out
the obligations of Canada thereunder. R.S.,
c. 219, s. 2.

**3.** (j) ]r or t he purposes of this section, the
expression "organization" means
  * (_a_) any specialized agency of which Canada
is a member that is brought into relationship
with the United Nations in accordance with
Article 63 of the Charter of the United
Nations ; and
(6) any international organization of which
Canada is a member, the primary purpose
of which is the maintenance of international
peace or the economic or social well-being
of the community of nations.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Governor
in Council may by order provide that
  * (_a_) an organization shall have the legal
capacities of a body corporate ;
(6) an organization shall, to such extent as
may be specified in the order, have the
privileges and immunities set forth in
Articles II and III of the Convention for
the United Nations ;
  * (_c_) representatives of states and govern
ments that are members of an organization
shall, to such extent as may be specified in
the order, have the privileges and immuni
ties set forth in Article IV of the Convention
for representatives of Members ;
  * (_d_) such officials of an organization as may
be designated by the Governor in Council
shall, to such extent as may be specified in
the order, have the privileges and immuni
ties set forth in Article V of the Convention
for officials of the United Nations ; and
  * (_e_) such experts performing missions for an
organization as may be designated by the
Governor in Council shall, to such extent
as may be specified in the order, have the
privileges and immunities set forth in
Article VI of the Convention for experts on
missions for the United Nations.
(3) Nothing in any order made under
subsection (2) shall exempt a Canadian citizen,
residing or ordinarily resident in Canada,
from liability for any taxes or duties imposed
by any law in Canada. R.S., c. 219, s. 3; 1964-
65, c. 47, s. 3.

## SCHEDULE
on the Privileges and Immunities of the United
Nations
ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON
13 FEBRUARY 1946
Whereas Article 104 of the Charter of the United Nations
provides that the Organization shall enjoy in the territory of
each of its Members such legal capacity as may be necessary for
the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes
and
Whereas Article 105 of the Charter of the United Nations
provides that the Organization shall enjoy in the territory of
each of its Members such privileges and immunities as are
necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes and that representa
tives of the Members of the United Nations and officials of the
Organization shall similarly enjoy such privileges and immunities
as are necessary for the independent exercise of their functions
in connection with the Organization.
Consequently the General Assembly by a Resolution adopted
on the 13 February 1946, approved the following Convention
and proposed it for accession by each Member of the United
Nations.
Article I
Juridical Personality
Section 1. The United Nations shall possess juridical
personality. It shall have the capacity :
  * (_a_) to contract ;
(6) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable
property ;
  * (_c_) to institute legal proceedings.
Article II
Property, Funds and Assets
Section 2. The United Nations, its property and assets
wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall enjoy immunity
from every form of legal process except in so far as in any
particular case it has expressly waived its immunity. It is,
however, understood that no waiver of immunity shall extend
to any measure of execution.
Section 3. The premises of the United Nations shall be
inviolable. The property and assets of the United Nations,
wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune
from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation and any
other form of interference, whether by executive, administrative,
judicial or legislative action.
Section 4. The archives of the United Nations, and in general
all documents belonging to it or held by it, shall be inviolable
wherever located.
Section 5. Without being restricted by financial controls,
regulations or moratoria of any kind,
  * (_a_) the United Nations may hold funds, gold or currency of
any kind and operate accounts in any currency ;
(6) The United Nations shall be free to transfer its funds, gold
or currency from one country to another or within any country
and to convert any currency held by it into any other currency.
Section 6. In exercising its rights under Section 5 above, the
United Nations shall pay due regard to any representations
made by the Government of any Member in so far as it is
considered that effect can be given to such representations
without detriment to the interests of the United Nations.
Section 7. The United Nations, its assets, income and other
property shall be :
  * (_a_) exempt from all direct taxes; it is understood, however,
that the United Nations will not claim exemption from taxes
which are, in fact, no more than charges for public utility
services ;
(6) exempt from customs duties and prohibitions and
restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles
imported or exported by the United Nations for its official
use. It is understood, however, that articles imported under
such exemption will not be sold in the country into which
they were imported except under conditions agreed with the
Government of that country ;
  * (_c_) exempt from customs duties and prohibitions and
restrictions on imports and exports in respect of its publications.
Section 8. While the United Nations will not, as a general
rule, claim exemption from excise duties and from taxes on the
sale of movable and immovable property which form part of the
price to be paid, nevertheless when the United Nations is making
important purchases for official use of property on which such
duties and taxes have been charged or are chargeable, Members
will, whenever possible, make appropriate administrative
arrangements for the remission or return of the amount of duty
or tax.
Article III
Facilities in Respect of Communications
Section 9. The United Nations shall enjoy in the territory of
each Member for its official communications treatment not less
favourable than that accorded by the Government of that
Member to any other Government including its diplomatic
mission in the matter of priorities, rates and taxes on mails,
cables, telegrams, radiograms, telephotos, telephone and other
communications; and press rates for information to the press
and radio. No censorship shall be applied to the official
correspondence and other official communications of the United
Nations.
Section 10. The United Nations shall have the right to use
codes and to despatch and receive its correspondence by courier
or in bags, which shall have the same immunities and privileges
as diplomatic couriers and bags.
Article IV
The Representatives of Members
Section 11. Representatives of Members to the principal and
subsidiary organs of the United Nations and to conferences
convened by the United Nations, shall, while exercising their
functions and during their journey to and from the place of
meeting, enjoy the following privileges and immunities:
  * (_a_) immunity from personal arrest or detention and from
seizure of their personal baggage, and, in respect of words
spoken or written and all acts done by them in their capacity
as representatives, immunity from legal process of every kind ;
  * (_b_) inviolability for all papers and documents;
  * (_c_) the right to use codes and to receive papers or
correspondence by courier or in sealed bags ;
  * (_d_) exemption in respect of themselves and their spouses from
immigration restrictions, aliens registration or national service
obligations in the state they are visiting or through which
they are passing in the exercise of their functions ;
  * (_e_) the same facilities in respect of currency or exchange
restrictions as are accorded to representatives of foreign
governments on temporary official missions ;
  * (_f_) the same immunities and facilities in respect of their
personal baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys ; and
also,
  * (_g_) such other privileges, immunities and facilities not
inconsistent with the foregoing as diplomatic envoys enjoy,
except that they shall have no right to claim exemption from
customs duties on goods imported (otherwise than as part of
their personal baggage) or from excise duties or sales taxes.
Section 12. In order to secure, for the representatives of
Members to the principal and subsidiary organs of the United
Nations and to conferences convened by the United Nations,
complete freedom of speech and independence in the discharge
of their duties, the immunity from legal process in respect of
words spoken or written and all acts done by them in discharging
their duties shall continue to be accorded, notwithstanding that
the persons concerned are no longer the representatives of
Members.
Section 13. Where the incidence of any form of taxation
depends upon residence, periods during which the representatives
of Members to the principal and subsidiary organs of the United
Nations and to conferences convened by the United Nations are
present in a state for the discharge of their duties shall not be
considered as periods of residence.
Section 14. Privileges and immunities are accorded to the
representatives of Members not for the personal benefit of the
individuals themselves, but in order to safeguard the independent
exercise of their functions in connection with the United Nations.
Consequently a Member not only has the right but is under a
duty to waive the immunity of its representative in any case
where in the opinion of the Member the immunity would
impede the course of justice, and it can be waived without
prejudice to the purpose for which the immunity is accorded.
Section 15. The provisions of Sections 11, 12 and 13 are not
applicable as between a representative and the authorities of
the state of which he is a national or of which he is or has been
the representative.
Section 16. In this article the expression "representatives"
shall be deemed to include all delegates, deputy delegates,
advisers, technical experts and secretaries of delegations.
Article V
Officials
Section 17. The Secretary-General will specify the categories
of officials to which the provisions of this Article and Article
VII shall apply. He shall submit these categories to the General
Assembly. Thereafter these categories shall be communicated to
the Governments of all Members. The names of the officials
in these categories shall from time to time be made
to the Governments of Members.
Section 18. Officials of the United Nations shall :
  * (_a_) be immune from legal process in respect of words spoken
or written and all acts performed by them in their official
capacity;
(6) be exempt from taxation on the salaries and emoluments
paid to them by the United Nations;
  * (_c_) be immune from national service obligations;
  * (_d_) be immune, together with their spouses and relatives
dependent on them, from immigration restrictions and alien
registration ;
  * (_e_) be accorded the same privileges in respect of exchange
facilities as are accorded to the officials of comparable ranks
forming part of diplomatic missions to the Government
concerned ;
(/) be given, together with their spouses and relatives
dependent on them, the same repatriation facilities in time of
international crisis as diplomatic envoys;
(0) have the right to import free of duty their furniture and
effects at the time of first taking up their post in the country
in question.
Section 19. In addition to the immunities and privileges
specified in Section 18, the Secretary-General and all Assistant
Secretaries-General shall be accorded in respect of themselves,
their spouses and minor children, the privileges and immunities,
exemptions and facilities accorded to diplomatic envoys, in
accordance with international law.
Section 20. Privileges and immunities are granted to officials
in the interests of the United Nations and not for the personal
benefit of the individuals themselves. The Secretary-General
shall have the right and the duty to waive the immunity of any
official in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would
impede the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice
to the interests of the United Nations. In the case of the
Secretary-General, the Security Council shall have the right to
waive immunity.
Section 21. The United Nations shall co-operate at all times
with the appropriate authorities of Members to facilitate the
proper administration of justice, secure the observance of police
regulations and prevent the occurrence of any abuse in
connection with the privileges, immunities and facilities
mentioned in this Article.
Article VI
Experts on Missions for the United Nations
Section 22. Experts (other than officials coming within the
scope of Article V) performing missions for the United Nations
shall be accorded such privileges and immunities as are necessary
for the independent exercise of their functions during the period
of their missions, including the time spent on journeys in
connection with their missions. In particular they shall be
accorded :
  * (_a_) immunity from personal arrest or detention and from
seizure of their personal baggage ;
(6) in respect of words spoken or written and acts done by
them in the course of the performance of their mission,
immunity from legal process of every kind. This immunity
from legal process shall continue to be accorded notwithstand-
ing that the persons concerned are no longer employed on
missions for the United Nations;
  * (_c_) inviolability for all papers and documents ;
  * (_d_) for the purpose of their communications with the United
Nations, the right to use codes and to receive papers or
correspondence by courier or in sealed bags;
  * (_e_) the same facilities in respect of currency or exchange
restrictions as are accorded to representatives of foreign
governments on temporary official missions ;
(/) the same immunities and facilities in respect of their
personal baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys.
Section 23. Privileges and immunities are granted to experts
in the interests of the United Nations and not for the personal
benefit of the individuals themselves. The Secretary-General
shall have the right and the duty to waive the immunity of any
expert in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would
impede the course of justice and it can be waived without
prejudice to the interests of the United Nations.
Article VII
United Nations laissez-passer
Section 24. The United Nations may issue United Nations
laissez-passer to its officials. These laissez-passer shall be
recognized and accepted as valid travel documents by the
authorities of Members, taking into account the provisions of
Section 25.
Section 25. Applications for visas (where required) from the
holders of United Nations laissez-passer, when accompanied by
a certificate that they are travelling on the business of the
United Nations, shall be dealt with as speedily as possible. In
addition, such persons shall be granted facilities for speedy
travel.
Section 26. Similar facilities to those specified in Section 25
shall be accorded to experts and other persons who, though not
the holders of United Nations laissez-passer, have a certificate
that they are travelling on the business of the United Nations.
Section 27. The Secretary-General, Assistant Secretaries-
General and Directors travelling on United Nations laissez-
passer on the business of the United Nations shall be granted
the same facilities as are accorded to diplomatic envoys.
Section 28. The provisions of this article may be applied to
the comparable officials of specialized agencies if the agreements
for relationship made under Article 63 of the Charter so provide.
Article VIII
Settlement of Disputes
Section 29. The United Nations shall make provisions for
appropriate modes of settlement of:
  * (_a_) disputes arising out of contracts or other disputes of a
private law character to which the United Nations is a party ;
  * (_b_) disputes involving any official of the United Nations who
by reason of his official position enjoys immunity, if immunity
has not been waived by the Secretary-General.
Section 30. All differences arising out of the interpretation or
of the present convention shall be referred to the
Court of Justice, unless in any case it is agreed by
the parties to have recourse to another mode of settlement. If a
difference arises between the United Nations on the one hand
and a Member on the other hand, a request shall be made for
an advisory opinion on any legal question involved accordance
with Article 96 of the Charter and Article 65 of the Statute of
the Court. The opinion given by the Court shall be accepted as
decisive by the parties.
Final Article
Section 31. This convention is submitted to every Member of
the United Nations for accession.
Section 32. Accession shall be effected by deposit of an
instrument with the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the convention shall come into force as regards each Member
on the date of deposit of each instrument of accession.
Section 33. The Secretary-General shall inform all Members
of the United Nations of the deposit of each accession.
Section 34. It is understood that, when an instrument of
accession is deposited on behalf of any Member, the Member
will be in a position under its own law to give effect to the terms
of this convention.
Section 35. This convention shall continue in force as between
the United Nations and every Member which has deposited an
instrument of accession for so long as that Member remains a
Member of the United Nations, or until a revised general
convention has been approved by the General Assembly and
that Member has become a party to this revised convention.
Section 36. The Secretary-General may conclude with any
Member or Members supplementary agreements adjusting the
provisions of this convention so far as that Member or those
Members are concerned. These supplementary agreements shall
in each case be subject to the approval of the General Assembly.
R.S., c. 219, Sch.
