
# CHAPTER P-25
Act respecting proprietary or patent
medicines

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Proprietary
or Patent Medicine Act. R.S., c. 220, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"Advisory Board" means the Advisory Board
appointed under section 9;
"analyst" means an analyst as defined in the
Food and Drugs Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of National
Health and Welfare ;
"proprietary or patent medicine" means every
artificial remedy or prescription manufac
tured for the internal or external use of
man, the name, composition or definition
of which is not to be found in the British
Pharmacopoeia, the Codex Medicamentari-
us of France, the Pharmacopoeia of the
United States, or any foreign phar
macopoeia approved by the Minister, the
Canadian Formulary, the National Formu
lary of the United States of America, or
any formulary adopted by any properly
constituted pharmaceutical association
representing Canada and approved by the
Minister ; or upon which is not printed in a
conspicuous manner the true formula or list
of medicinal ingredients contained in it.
(2) For the purposes of this Act the
proprietor of a proprietary or patent medicine
be deemed to be the manufacturer
thereof, and where the manufacturer of a
proprietary or patent medicine is not resident
in Canada or has his chief place of business
or head office in a place outside of Canada,
such manufacturer shall file with the Minister
the name of a person or corporation in or
having its head office in Canada as the agent
of such manufacturer, and such agent shall
be deemed to be the manufacturer for all the
purposes of this Act.
(3) In any case where a manufacturer does
not file the name of an agent when required
as aforesaid, the Minister may take any
proceedings or action under this Act ex parte
and without any notice to or communication
with such manufacturer. R.S., c. 220, s. 2.

## ADMINISTRATION

**3.** The administration of this Act and of
all orders and regulations passed or made
hereunder shall be under the direction and
control of the Minister. R.S., c. 220, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Every manufacturer of a proprietary
or patent medicine, or the agent of such
manufacturer, shall, before offering any
medicine for sale, procure from the Minister
a numbered certificate of registration for each
proprietary or patent medicine that he
proposes to import into or offer for sale in
Canada, and shall pay a fee of two dollars to
the Minister for each such certificate.
(2) The manufacturer or agent shall, at the
time of applying for the said certificate of
registration, for any medicine containing any
of the drugs mentioned in or added to the
schedule, furnish the Minister with a statement
under oath of the quantity of such drug or
drugs contained in the medicine, which
statement shall be filed in the Department of
National Health and Welfare, and shall be
treated as confidential.
(3) Any person furnishing the Minister with
a statement that is incorrect or false is, in
addition to the punishment to which he may
be liable for making a false or incorrect
statement upon oath, liable to a penalty not
one hundred dollars and costs or to
imprisonment for any term not exceeding two
months, and the Minister has power to cancel
any certificate of registration that the Minister
may have granted for the medicine described
in the statement.
(4) Whenever required by the Minister, for
good cause shown, the preparation of any
medicine containing any drug included in the
schedule shall be continuously supervised by
a pharmacist or a chemist, and any person
violating the provisions of this subsection is
guilty of an offence and liable to a penalty
not exceeding one hundred dollars and costs,
or to imprisonment for any term not exceeding
two months.
(5) Should the manufacturer at any time
decide to change or alter in any way the
composition or the name of any medicine for
which a registration number has been granted,
he shall notify the Minister of such intention
and ask for a new registration number, which
may be granted upon the same terms as in
the previous application, and the former
registration number shall thereupon be can
celled, and shall not be reissued.
(6) The number under which any proprie
tary or patent medicine is registered shall be
deemed to sufficiently identify such medicine
for any purposes of this Act, and shall be
clearly printed on the wrapper and label on
each bottle, box or other container in which
the medicine is sold or offered for sale. R.S.,
c. 220, s. 4.

**5.** All proprietary or patent medicines shall
be put up in packages or bottles, and every
one of these, intended for sale or distribution
in Canada, shall have placed upon it, in
conspicuous characters forming an inseparable
part of the general label and wrapper, the
name and number under which the medicine
is registered, with the words "The Proprietary
or Patent Medicine Act", and also the
manufacturer s name and address, which name
and number is sufficient identification, as to
the manufacturer thereof, for the purposes of
section 17. R.S., c. 220, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Every manufacturer of a proprietary
a licence to sell such medicine, and shall pay
an annual fee of one dollar for each licence,
if at the end of the year, the manufacturer
is able to prove to the satisfaction of the
Minister, that his sales of any registered
article for the year amounted to less than
twenty-five dollars, the licence fee paid may
be repaid to him.
(2) In such licence the medicine shall be
referred to by its registered number only.
(3) The year for which such licence is
granted shall be the calendar year, and every
licence to sell expires on the 31st day of
December of the year for which it was granted.
(4) Such licence permits the sale of such
medicine in Canada during the term of such
licence.
(5) A single licence covering any number of
preparations designated by their registration
numbers may be granted to any manufacturer,
but the fee to be paid for such licence shall
be at the rate of one dollar for every
registration number included in the licence.
(6) No proprietary or patent medicine shall
be sold in Canada unless a licence as above
has been granted for such sale, and the period
for which the licence is granted determines
the time limit during which legal sale may be
made. R.S., c. 220, s. 6.

**7.** The manufacture, importation or sale of
all proprietary or patent medicines containing
opium or its derivatives for internal use is
prohibited. R.S., c. 220, s. 7.

**8.** (1) No proprietary or patent medicine
shall be manufactured, imported, exposed. or
offered for sale or sold in Canada, if
  * (_a_) it contains cocaine or any of its salts or
preparations ;
(6) it contains alcohol in excess of the
amount required as a solvent or preservative,
or is not sufficiently medicated to make it
unfit for use as a beverage ;
  * (_c_) it contains any drug that is included in
the schedule the name of which and the
amount per dose of which are not conspic
uously printed on an inseparable part of
other container, or if the quantity of such
drug exceeds the amount permitted by the
Advisory Board ;
  * (_d_) it contains any drug that is included in
the schedule and the name of such drug as
used on the label is not the commonly
employed name of such drug ;
  * (_e_) the article is represented as a cure for
any disease ; or
  * (_f_) any false, misleading or exaggerated
claims are made on the wrapper or label, or
in any advertisement of the article.
(2) No proprietary or patent medicine
intended for administration to infants under
one year of age shall contain any derivative
of coal-tar that, in the opinion of the Advisory
Board, is dangerous to children under one
year of age. R.S., c. 220, s. 8.

**9.** (i) The Minister has power to appoint
an advisory Board consisting of not less than
three and not more than five members, one
of whom shall be the Director-General, Food
and Drugs, or, in the absence or inability to
act of the Director-General, the Deputy
Director-General, Food and Drugs, the others
to be properly qualified persons.
(2) The Advisory Board has power to
prescribe what shall be deemed a sufficient
medication of medicines containing alcohol
in excess of two and one-half per cent to make
them unfit for use as beverages; and also
what shall be the maximum single and daily
doses to be prescribed in the case of any
medicines consisting of or containing any
drug mentioned in or added to the schedule ;
and the decision of the Advisory Board in all
such cases is final.
(3) The Director-General, Food and Drugs,
shall serve on such Advisory Board without
remuneration; the other members shall be
paid such fees for their attendance as the
Minister may authorize, and all the members
of the Board are entitled to be paid their
be paid out of such money as Parliament may
appropriate for the purpose. R.S., c. 220, s. 9.

**10.** The Minister may order any officer to
obtain samples of any proprietary or patent
medicine, and the manner of obtaining and
treating such samples shall be as provided by
departmental regulations which may be made
by the Minister. R.S., c. 220, s. 10.

**11.** (1) No person, firm or corporation shall
distribute or cause or permit to be distributed
from door to door, or upon a public place or
highway, or through the mail, any sample of
a proprietary or patent medicine.
(2) This section does not prevent manufac
turers or wholesale dealers distributing sam
ples to the trade. R.S., c. 220, s. 11.

**12.** Any proprietary or patent medicines
found on sale in Canada not marked as
required by section 5, or offered for sale or
sold by any manufacturer who does not hold
the licence to sell required by section 6, may
be seized, and shall be forfeited to Her
Majesty, and may be destroyed or otherwise
dealt with as the Minister shall direct. R.S.,
c. 220, s. 12.

**13.** (1) No manufacturer, importer or ven
dor shall, in any advertisement or in any
other manner, assert or indicate that the
certificate of registration issued by the
Minister passes upon the merits of any
proprietary or patent medicine, and no
reference to such certificate, or to any other
certificate or guarantee, other than by this
Act specially provided, shall be made in any
advertisement, upon any label upon the
package or bottle in which such medicine is
contained, or in any other manner.
(2) No proprietary or patent medicine shall
be imported, exposed, sold or offered for sale
in Canada which bears any representations
respecting certificates issued under any
Canadian or foreign governments different
from that allowed under this Act.
any subsequent offence a penalty not exceed
ing five hundred dollars and not less than
one hundred dollars and costs, and the
certificate of registration shall be cancelled.
R.S., c. 220, s. 13.

**14.** Every person, firm or corporation who
unlawfully uses, or forges or alters, or uses,
knowing it to be forged or altered, any
manufacturer s label or certificate required
under this Act, is guilty of an offence, and
liable to a penalty not exceeding five hundred
dollars and not less than one hundred dollars,
and to imprisonment, with or without hard
labour, for any term not exceeding twelve
months and not less than three months. R.S.,
c.220, s. 14.

**15.** Every person, firm or corporation
failing to observe any provision of this Act
for which a specific penalty has not been
provided, shall for a first offence incur in
each case a penalty not exceeding fift} dollars
and costs, and for every subsequent offence a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars
and costs, and his certificate of registration
may be cancelled. R.S., c. 220, s. 15.

**16.** The directors of any company incor
porated in Canada are jointly and severally
liable for any offence against this Act by such
company or by any of its officers. R.S., c. 220,
s. 16.

**17.** (1) In the case of any person accused
of selling, offering or exposing for sale any
proprietary or patent medicine that is not in
conformity with the provisions of this Act,
and upon which there appears the name and
number under which the medicine is registered,
with the words "The Proprietary or Patent
Medicine Act", and also the manufacturer s
name and address, if the person so charged
also proves that he sold the said medicine in
the same state as when he purchased it and
that he could not with reasonable diligence
have obtained knowledge of such medicine
being of a character contrary to the provisions
of this Act, or knowledge of the forgery, or
alteration, or unlawful use of the manufac
turer s label and certificate, as the case may
be, he shall be discharged ; but he is liable to
pay the costs incurred by the prosecutor,
unless he has given due notice in writing to
the prosecutor that he will rely upon the said
defence and has also given to the prosecutor
notice in writing of the name of the person
from whom he purchased such medicine, but
in any case the Minister may, if the medicine
is sold, offered or exposed for sale contrary to
the provisions of this Act, declare the medicine
forfeited to the Crown.
(2) If the person who gives notice of such
defence, or the prosecutor, obtains a summons
to bring such third party before the court, the
court shall at the same time hear all the
parties and decide upon the entire merits of
the case, not only with regard to the person
originally accused but also with regard to the
third party so brought before the court. R.S.,
c. 220, s. 17.

**18.** Every penalty or forfeiture incurred
for any offence against this Act, or any
regulation, may be recovered in the name of
Her Majesty in a summary manner, with
costs, under the provisions of the Criminal
Code relating to summary convictions. R.S.,
c. 220, s. 18.

**19.** Any term of imprisonment for an
offence against this Act, whether in conjunc
tion with a pecuniary penalty or not, may be
adjudged and ordered
  * (_a_) by the Exchequer Court of Canada, or
any court of record having jurisdiction in
the premises ; or
(6) if such term of imprisonment does not
exceed twelve months, exclusive of any
term of imprisonment adjudged or ordered
for non-payment of any pecuniary penalty,
whether the offence in respect of which the
liability to imprisonment has been incurred
is declared by this Act to be an indictable
offence or not, in a summary manner under
the provisions of the Criminal Code relating
to summary convictions, by a judge of a
county court, or by a police or stipendiary
magistrate, or any two justices of the peace
having jurisdiction in the place where the
cause of prosecution arises, or wherein the
defendant is served with process. R.S., c.
220, s. 19.

**20.** Any penalty incurred under this Act
shall be deemed to be in addition to, and not
in substitution for, any penalty incurred
under the law of any province. R.S., c. 220, s.

**20.**

**21.** The Governor in Council may make
such regulations for giving effect to any of
the provisions of this Act or of any amendment
hereto that imposes any further restrictions,
or in respect of the sale of any patent or
proprietary medicine in stock on the 20th day
of July 1908, and declare the true intent
thereof, in any case of doubt, as to him seems
meet, and may also add to or remove from
the schedule any poisons or potent drugs, as
from time to time he deems expedient. U.S.,
c. 220, s. 21.

**22.** Any violation of any regulation sub
jects the person in the said regulation
mentioned to such penalty or forfeiture as is,
by the said regulation, imposed for such
violation. R.S., c. 220, s. 22.
[See schedule on the following page.]
