Archives Act. R.S., c. 222, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Secretary of State of Canada or such other
member of the Queen s Privy Council for
Canada as is named for that purpose by order
in council. R.S., c. 222, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 25, s.

**42.**

**3.** The Governor in Council may appoint
an officer to be called the Dominion Archivist,
who shall have the rank and salary of a
deputy head of a department, and who, under
the direction of the Minister, shall have the
care, custody and control of the Public
Archives. U.S., c. 222, s. 3.

**4.** Such other officers, clerks and employees
as are necessary for the proper care, custody
and control of the Public Archives may be
appointed in the manner authorized by law.
R.S., c. 222, s. 4.

**5.** The Dominion Archivist shall, subject
to the direction of the Minister, oversee and
direct all officers, clerks and employees
appointed to assist him in the performance of
his duties. R.S., c. 222, s. 5.

**6.** The Public Archives shall consist of all
such public records, documents and other
historical material of every kind, nature and
description as, under this Act, or under the
authority of any order in council made by
virtue thereof, are placed under the care,
custody and control of the Dominion Archi
vist. R.S., c. 222, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Governor in Council may order
and direct that any public records, documents
or other historical material of any kind,
nature, or description shall be taken from the
custody of any department of the Government
having control thereof and removed to the
Archives Building in the city of Ottawa
established for the purpose of containing such
records, documents and material and placed
under the care, custody and control of the
Dominion Archivist.
(2) The Governor in Council may order
and direct that any other records, documents
or historical material of any kind, nature or
description acquired under the authority of
the Minister be placed in the said Archives
Building under the care, custody and control
of the Dominion Archivist. R.S., c. 222, s. 7.

**8.** The Dominion Archivist, under the
direction of the Minister, may acquire for the
Public Archives all such original records,
documents and other material as he deems
necessary or desirable to secure therefor, or
he may acquire copies thereof, and all such
originals or copies so acquired shall form part
of the Public Archives, and he may pay for
them, or for the transcribing, binding and
repairing thereof, or any other expense
incurred in connection therewith, out of such
moneys as are voted by Parliament for the
purposes of the Public Archives. R.S., c. 222,
s. 8.

**9.** The Dominion Archivist is a deputy
head of a department within the meaning of
the Canada Evidence Act, and with respect to
any of the records or documents under his
custody and control he may give any
certification or do any act or thing that , under
that Act or any other statute or any regulation,
may be given or done by a deputy head of a
department of government, and any such
certification, act or thing has the same force
and effect as if given or done by the deputy
head of a department. R.S., c. 222, s. 9.

**10.** Unless otherwise ordered by the Gov
ernor in Council, the powers and duties of the
Minister under this Act shall not be exercised
or discharged by deputy except in so far as
the Dominion Archivist is authorized to act
for or as the deputy of the Minister, and any
or duties that are by law charged upon
the deputy of the Minister in respect of the
Public Archives or any matter regulated by
this Act shall, unless otherwise ordered by the
Governor in Council, be exercised or dis-
charged by the Dominion Archivist. R.S., c.
222,s.lO.
