
# CHAPTER P-3
An Act respecting the sale of tickets by
railway, steamboat and ferry companies

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Passenger
Tickets Act. R.S., c. 202, s. 1.

## TICKETS AND TICKET AGENTS

**2.** Any railway company, steamboat or
ferry company subject to the jurisdiction of
the Parliament of Canada, or to which the
Railway Act applies, and the Minister of
Transport, as respects any railway under the
control of the Government of Canada, may
appoint, in any city, town or village in
Canada, such person or persons as it or he
chooses, as agents for the sale of passenger
tickets to passengers or persons who desire to
travel by the railway, steamboat or ferry of
the company employing such agent, or by
any Government railway, as the case may be.
R.S., c. 202, s. 2.

**3.** The Minister of Transport, or company,
employing any such agent, shall give him a
certificate of his appointment, which shall be
under the hand of the Minister of Transport,
or the corporate seal of the company
appointing him ; and such agent shall keep
the certificate framed or exhibited in some
conspicuous part of his office or place of
business, where it can be seen and read by
those resorting to the office. R.S., c. 202, s. 3.

**4.** Every agent of a foreign railway com
pany doing business in Canada shall, before
issuing tickets over any Government railway
line, or other Canadian railway line, be duly
authorized for such purpose by the Minister
of Transport, or by the company, as the case
may be, over whose line he desires to issue
tickets, in the same manner as is hereinbefore
provided in respect of other agents, and shall
have and exhibit, in like manner, a certificate
from the foreign company he represents. R.S.,
c. 202, s. 4.

**5.** Every ticket sold by any agent shall
have the name of such agent and the date of
the sale written or stamped plainly upon it.
R.S., c. 202, s. 5.

**6.** Nothing in this Act prevents the duly
authorized agent of any company from
procuring from the duly authorized agent of
any other company, a ticket for a passenger
to whom he has sold a ticket to travel over
the line or any part thereof for which he is
the authorized agent, so as to enable such
passenger to travel to the point or junction
from which he has previously secured his
ticket. R.S.,c. 202, s. 6.

**7.** Nothing in this Act respecting the
appointment of agents for the sale of tickets
prevents the station agents of the Minister of
Transport or company, at their stations, and
in their ticket offices at such stations, from
selling tickets to passengers about to enter
upon and travel by railway from the said
stations. R.S., c. 202, s. 7.

## UNUSED TICKETS

**8.** (1) The Minister of Transport, with
respect to any Government railway, and every
railway company subject to the jurisdiction
of the Parliament of Canada, or to which the
Railway Act applies, as the case may be, shall
repay to every holder of a ticket over any
Government railway line or other Canadian
railway line, as the case may be, the cost of
his ticket, if unused in whole or in part, less
the ordinary and regular fare for the distance
for which such ticket has been used.
(2) Such repayment shall be made at any
or office of the railway or company
and including the points covered by
ticket.
(3) The claim for such redemption shall be
made within thirty days from the expiration
of the time for which the ticket was issued, in
accordance with the conditions thereon. R.S.,
c. 202, s. 8.

## STOP OVER TICKETS

**9.** (1) Every passenger who presents a
single journey ticket upon a train within the
time for which the conditions printed upon
such ticket and the date shows such ticket to
be good for use, may apply to the conductor
of such train to have the privilege of stopping
over granted, and the time for which the
ticket is valid extended.
(2) Such privilege and extension of time
shall be granted by such conductor on tickets
purchased at railway ticket offices in Canada,
from one place in Canada to another, or from
a place in Canada to a place in the United
States.
(3) No such passenger is entitled to have
such time extended for more than two days
for every fifty miles of distance to be travelled
in Canada. R.S., c. 202, s. 9.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
io. Every person who,
  * (_a_) not being thereunto authorized as
hereinbefore mentioned, sells, or offers for
sale any railway, steamboat or ferry
passenger ticket, or pass, ticket, certificate
or other instrument, enabling any person or
purporting to entitle any person to travel
on any one railway, steamboat or ferry, or
more than one railway, steamboat or ferry,
or on any part of one railway or parts of
several railways to which this Act applies ;
  * (_b_) issues the unused portion of any ticket,
otherwise than by the presentation of the
ticket for redemption under this Act ; or
  * (_c_) fraudulently alters, changes or imitates
the signature of the agent or the date
written or stamped upon any ticket ;
is guilty of an offence against this Act and is,
upon summary conviction thereof before any
justice of the peace, liable to a penalty not
fifry dollars and not less than
twenty dollars and costs, or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding ninety days and not
less than ten days, or to both penalty and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the justice.
R.S..C.202. s. 10.

**11.** Every complaint respecting an offence
against this Act shall be prosecuted under the
provisions of the Criminal Code relating to
summary convictions. R.S., c. 202, s. 11.
