Officers Act. R.S., c. 225, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "bond" includes securities
other than bonds. R.S., c. 225, s. 2.

## COMMISSIONS

**3.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations declaring and determining what
dignitaries, officers or classes of officers, or
persons in the public service of Canada,
appointed under orders in council shall receive
commissions under the Great Seal or under
the Privy Seal respectively, and what fee
shall be paid thereon; and such commissions
may be issued to the dignitaries, officers and
persons who have not received and are
declared entitled to receive them. R.S., c. 225,
s. 3.

**4.** Commissions issued under section 3 shall
be recorded in the office of the Registrar
General of Canada, and notice of the
appointments shall be inserted in the Canada
Gazette by the Registrar General of Canada,
and a list of such commissions issued during
the year shall be laid before Parliament
the first fifteen days of its next ensuing
in each year. R.S., c. 225, s. 4; 1966-
c. 25, s. 45.

## FORMALITIES AND EFFECT OF SECURITY

**5.** Every person who is required to give
i / i , i
by reason of being appointed to any
civil office or employment or commission in
any public department of the Government of
Canada, or any office or employment of
public trust, or wherein he is concerned in the
collection, receipt, disbursement or expendi
ture of any public money under the Govern
ment, shall,
  * (_a_) within one month after notice of such
appointment if he is then in Canada,
  * (_b_) within three months after such notice if
he is then absent from Canada, or
  * (_c_) if, at the time of such notice, he is
absent from Canada, within one month
after he arrives in Canada, if he so arrives
within three months of such notice,
give and enter into a bond for the due
performance of the trust reposed in him, and
for his duly accounting for all public moneys
entrusted to him or placed under his control,
in such manner and with such sureties as are
approved of by the Governor in Council, or
by the principal officer or person in the office
or department to which he is appointed. R.S.,
c. 225, s. 5.

**6.** Whenever any person is required, under
this Act or under any Act of the Parliament
of Canada, or by any order of the Governor
in Council, to give security for the due
performance of the duties of any office to
which he has been or is about to be appointed,
such person may either solely, or together
with sureties, as the case may be, give such
security by bond to Her Majesty in Form A
in the schedule, or to the like effect. R.S., c.
225, s. 6.

**7.** Whenever a bond made according to
Form A set forth in the schedule, or any other
bond expressed to be made in pursuance of
this Act, or referring thereto, contains the
form of words set forth in column one of that
Form, such bond shall be construed and have
the same effect as if it contained the form of
words set forth in column two of the said
Form. R.S., c. 225, s. 7.

**8.** Any recitals may be inserted prior to the
of the bond, and the feminine
may be substituted for the masculine,
or the plural number for the singular, or vice
versa, in the first column of the said Form,
and corresponding changes shall, in such case,
be taken to be made in the corresponding
Form in the second column ; and any express
exceptions or qualifications or additions,
made, introduced or annexed in the first
column, shall be taken to be made in the
corresponding Form in the second column.
R.S., c. 225, s. 8.

**9.** Any bond or part of a bond that does
not take effect by virtue of sections 6, 7 and
8, is nevertheless as effectual to bind the
obligors therein, so far as the rules of law and
equity will permit, as if the said sections had
not been passed. R.S., c. 225, s. 9.

**10.** No bond given by any person, under
this Act, to Her Majesty, Her heirs or
successors, constitutes any other or greater
lien or claim upon the lands or tenements,
goods or chattels of such person, than if such
bond had been given to one of Her Majesty s
subjects. U.S., c. 225, s. 10.
\\ t Every surety in any such bond shall
make an affidavit in Form B in the schedule,
or to the effect thereof, before a justice of the
peace ; and the execution of every such bond
shall be proved as to each person executing
the bond by an affidavit of the attesting
witness, made in Form C in the schedule,
before a justice of the peace. R.S., c. 225,
s. 11.

## REGISTRATION

**12.** (1) Every bond, with the several affida
vits thereunto annexed, shall be recorded at
full length in the office of the Registrar
General of Canada, in the manner hereinafter
mentioned; and the original bond and the
affidavits thereunto annexed shall, after such
registration, be deposited in the said office.
(2) Such registration and deposit shall be
made within one month after the bond is
entered into or given, if the person on whose
behalf it is entered into or given resides or is
in Canada ; and if he is absent from Canada,
then within three months after the bond is
entered into or given, unless such person
arrives sooner in Canada, and then within
one month after his arrival. R.S., c. 225, s. 12 ;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 45; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 13.

**13.** (1) The Registrar General of Canada
shall make an entry, and shall, if required,
give a certificate, in writing, under his hand
and seal, of every such bond brought to him
to be registered as aforesaid, and therein shall
mention the day on which such bond is so
registered, expressing also in what book, page
or number the bond is recorded.
(2) The Registrar General of Canada shall,
for the purpose of so registering bonds,
provide a separate register, every page of
which shall be numbered as well as every
bond recorded therein ; and the day of the
month and year when every such bond is
registered shall be entered in the margin of
the register, and in the margin of the bond.
(3) The Registrar General of Canada shall
keep separate alphabetical lists of the names
of the principals and of the names of the
sureties mentioned in such bonds, with
reference to the book, page or number where
the bonds containing such names are to be
found, and shall enter and register the bonds
in the order of time in which they respectively
come to his hands. R.S., c. 225, s. 13; 1966-67,
c. 25, s. 45.

**14.** Every such bond shall be endorsed
with the following particulars, certified by
the Registrar General of Canada :
  * (_a_) the date of the bond ;
(6) the date of its receipt by the Registrar
General of Canada ;
  * (_c_) the names of the principals and sureties
and the amount for which each is bound ;
  * (_d_) the office for the faithful discharge of
the duties whereof the bond is given ;
  * (_e_) the registration number ;
(/) the folio on which the bond is entered
in the register of bonds ; and
  * (_g_) the folio and book in which the bond is
recorded in the office of the Registrar
General of Canada. R.S., c. 225, s. 14 ; 1966-
67, c. 25, s. 45.

**15.** When the securities of the principal
sureties have been executed at different
times, whether they were taken in one and
the same bond, deed or other instrument, or
in different ones, the period limited for
registering and depositing such securities shall
be estimated from the time of execution
thereof by the person who was the last to
execute any such bond, deed or other
instrument. R.S., c. 225, s. 15.

**16.** No neglect, omission or irregularity in
giving or receiving any bond or in registering
or endorsing the same, within the periods or
in the manner prescribed by this Act, vacates
or makes void any such bond, or discharges
any surety from the obligation thereof. R.S.,
c. 225, s. 16.

**17.** All bonds hereby required to be
registered and deposited shall be registered
and deposited by the proper officer, notwith
standing that the period prescribed for
executing these formalities has expired ; but
no such registering and depositing of any
bond shall be deemed to waive any forfeiture
or penalty, or to exempt the person on whose
behalf the bond is registered and deposited
from any forfeiture or penalty under this Act.
R.S., c. 225, s. 17.

## SURETY S TERMINATION OF RESPONSIBILITY

**18.** Any person who has become surety to
the Crown for the due accounting for public
moneys, or the proper performance of any
public duty, by any person from whom such
security is required, may, when no longer
disposed to continue his responsibility as such
surety, give notice thereof to his principal
and also to the Registrar General of Canada,
and all accruing responsibility on the part of
such person as surety shall cease at the
expiration of three months from the receipt
of the last of such notices, or upon the
acceptance by the Crown of another surety in
his place, whichever shall first happen. R.S.,
c. 225, s. 18; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

## CONSEQUENCES OF NOT GIVING SECURITY

**19.** (1) Where any person, who, by reason
his appointment to or his holding of any
civil office, employment or commission in
any public department, or office of public
trust, or who, by reason of being concerned in
the collection, receipt, disbursement or expen
diture of any public money, is required or
bound to give any security, or to register and
deposit any bond, neglects to give such
security, or to cause such bond to be duly
registered and deposited in the manner and
within the period prescribed in this Act, he is
liable to forfeit the appointment, office,
commission or employment, in respect whereof
such security should have been given and
such bond registered and deposited as afore
said ; and such forfeiture takes effect from
and after the time when the Governor General
declares the forfeiture to have taken effect
under this Act.
(2) No such forfeiture shall take place by
reason of any such bond not being registered
or deposited, if the proper sureties have been
given and the proper bond made out, and the
failure of registry and deposit has arisen from
the loss of such bond in the transmission
thereof from a distance ; but in every such
case a new bond, specifying the reason of such
delay, shall be made out and signed, registered
and deposited, within the like period after
the person giving such security receives notice
of the loss, regard being had to the place
where he then is, as would have been required
by this Act for the registry thereof, if such
loss had not occurred. R.S., c. 225, s. 19.

**20.** (1) Every person, who has given any
bond, with sureties for the due execution of
the trust reposed in him, or for duly accounting
for public moneys coming to his hands, shall
give notice, in writing, to the Registrar
General of Canada, or to the principal officer
or person of the department to which he
belongs, of the death, bankruptcy, insolvency,
or residence out of Canada, of any surety or
person bound for or with him in any such
bond.
(2) Such notice shall be given within one
after the fact comes to the knowledge
such person, if he then is or resides in
Canada, or within three months if he is out
of Canada, unless he sooner arrives in Canada,
and then within one month after such arrival ;
and any person who neglects to give such
notice within the period limited therefor,
shall forfeit, to the use of Her Majesty, one
quarter of the sum for which the surety so
dead, bankrupt, insolvent or resident out of
Canada, became security, recoverable in any
court of competent jurisdiction, at the suit of
the Crown. R.S., c. 225, s. 20; 1966-67, c. 25,
s. 45.
2 1. Every person who has given any bond
with sureties for the due execution of the
trust reposed in him, or for duly accounting
for public moneys coming to his hands shall,
upon the death, bankruptcy, insolvency or
residence out of Canada of any such surety,
and after giving the notice required by
subsection 20(2), within one month, if such
person is then in Canada, or within three
months if he is then absent from Canada,
unless he sooner arrives in Canada, and then
within one month after such arrival, substitute
for the surety so dead, bankrupt, insolvent or
resident out of Canada, another surety, to be
approved in like manner, and shall, within
the like period after the bond of such new
surety is entered into or given, cause such
bond to be duly registered and deposited ;
otherwise such person is liable to forfeit the
appointment, office, commission or employ
ment in respect whereof such fresh security
ought to have been given ; and such forfeiture
takes effect from and after the time when the
Governor General so declares. R.S., c. 225,
s. 21.

**22.** Whenever under the provisions herein
before contained any surety gives notice to
his principal and also to the Registrar General
of Canada that he is no longer disposed to
continue his responsibility, the principal shall,
within one month from the receipt of the last
of such notices furnish another surety, and
register and deposit the bond of such new
surety, or in default of so doing is liable to
forfeit and be deprived of the appointment,
office, commission or employment in respect
whereof such new surety ought to have been
given, and such new bond registered and
deposited as aforesaid ; and such forfeiture
takes effect from and after the time when the
Governor General so declares. R.S., c. 225, s.
22; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**23.** No act of any public officer of Canada,
whose security has been given, registered or
deposited, or whose affidavit of justification
has been filed after the time limited by this
Act, is by such default void or voidable. R.S.,
c. 225, s. 23.

**24.** The forfeiture or avoidance of the
appointment, office, commission or employ
ment of any person under the authority of
this Act does not annul or make void any act
or order or other matter or thing done by such
person during the time he actually held such
appointment, office, commission or employ
ment. R.S., c. 225, s. 24.

## POWERS OF GOVERNOR IN COUNCIL TO REMIT

## FORFEITURES AND EXTEND TIME

**25.** The Governor in Council may remit
the forfeiture or penalty in any case in which
the failure to give security, or to register and
deposit any bond under this Act, has not
arisen from any wilful neglect of the person
bound to give, register or deposit the same.
R.S., c. 225, s. 25.

**26.** (1) The Governor in Council may
extend the time for furnishing a new surety
if it appears that the period hereinbefore
limited therefor is in consequence of accidents
or special circumstances insufficient, or that
further time will be necessary to enable a new
surety to be given by reason of illness, distance
or loss of letters ; or by reason of the refusal
of any person to become surety, or any person
offered as surety not being deemed eligible
and being rejected.
(2) Such extended period shall in no case
exceed two months; and the precise period
proposed to be allowed, together with the
special grounds for allowing the period, shall
be either entered in the book in which the
original security has been registered, or
on the back of the original bond
(3) The person required to give such new-
is not subject to any forfeiture or
penalty for not giving it within the time
limited by this Act, if he gives such new
surety within the extended period so allowed.
R.S., c. 225, s. 26.

**27.** The Governor in Council may approve
of the security given, or the affidavit of
justification filed by any public officer
although the same has been given or filed
after the time limited by this Act ; and in
such case the appointment, office, commission,
or employment of such public officer shall
not be deemed to have been forfeited by such
default, but to have remained and to remain
in full force and effect. R.S., c. 225, s. 27.

## REGULATIONS

**28.** (1) The Governor in Council may
direct that, whenever any person is required
to give security for the due performance of
his office, trust or employment, or for duly
accounting for public moneys entrusted to
him or placed under his control, or for the
due fulfilment of his duties in any respect, or
for the performance of any obligation under
taken toward the Crown,
  * (_a_) the bond or policy of guarantee of any
incorporated company, named by order in
council, and empowered to grant guarantees,
bonds, covenants or policies for the integrity
and faithful accounting of public officers
or other like purposes, or
  * (_b_) a conditional assignment of a deposit
standing in the name of any public officer,
required to give security, in the books of
the Post Office or any other Government
savings bank,
may be accepted as such security upon such
terms as are determined by the Governor in
Council.
(2) In the case of any such assignment of a
deposit the interest upon the deposit is
payable to the depositor until forfeiture of
the security, in like manner as if no such
assignment had been made. R.S., c. 225, s. 28.

**29.** The Governor in Council may direct
cases in which the bond or policy of guarantee
of a company is accepted as such security, the
money necessary to pay the premium upon
such bond or policy may be deducted from
the salary or pay of the person or persons for
whom the security is given, either by monthly
instalments or otherwise. R.S., c. 225, s. 29.

**30.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations for the establishment and mainte
nance of a fund to be derived from moneys
contributed by, or deducted from the salaries
or pay of the persons concerned, wherewith to
make good to the Crown any loss sustained
by reason of the default of any person
required to give security. R.S., c. 225, s. 30.
3 1. Such regulations may apply generally
to all persons required to give security or to
any class or classes of such persons, and, if
the Governor in Council thinks fit, may
provide, as to all or any of such persons or
classes of persons, that the security afforded
by such fund shall be in substitution or in
partial substitution for the security required
to be given by any such persons or classes of
persons. R.S., c. 225, s. 31.

## REPORT

**32.** The Registrar General of Canada shall
cause to be prepared, for the information of
the Parliament of Canada, within fifteen
days after the opening of every session
thereof, a detailed statement of all bonds
registered at his office, and of any changes or
entries that have been made in reference to
the names and residences of any sureties, and
of the amounts in which sureties have become
liable, since the period of the last
the of , in the Province of
and of the said of (hereinafter called
the sureties"), are respectively held and firmly bound unto our
Sovereign Lady the Queen, Her heirs and successors, in the
respective penal sums following, that is to say: The principal
in the sum of dollars of lawful money of Canada,
and each of the sureties in a sum of dollars of like
lawful money, to be paid to our said Sovereign Lady the Queen,
Her heirs and successors, for which said respective payments,
well and faithfully to be made, we severally, and not jointly, or
each for the other, bind ourselves, and our respective heirs,
executors and administrators, firmly by these presents, sealed
with our respective seals.
Dated this day of in the year of Our
Lord 19 and in the year of Her Majes-
ty s reign.
WHEREAS the principal, having been appointed to the office
or employment of is required by law
to give security to the Crown for the due performance of the
duties appertaining thereto ; and the sureties have consented to
become his sureties for such his performance of the said duties:
and this bond is given in pursuance of the Public Officers Act:

## COLUMN ONE COLUMN TWO
Now the condition of this obli Now the condition of the above
gation is that if the principal obligation is such that if the
faithfully discharges the duties of principal so appointed to the said
the said office, and dulj- accounts office or employment as afore
for all moneys and property which said, do and shall, from time to
come into his custody by virtue time and at all times, so long as
of the said office, this obligation he shall hold the said office or
shall be void. employment, or be and remain
charged with the actual discharge
Signed, sealed^ of the duties appertaining there
and delivered 1 to, or any of them, faithfully,
in the presence f honestly, and diligently,
of
  * (_a_) Do, perform, fulfil and dis
charge all and every such duties,
in every respect, in accordance
with the laws now in force in that
behalf, as also all and singular
such other duties as, by compe
tent authority in that behalf,
now are or hereafter shall or may
be attached to the said office or
employment, or imposed upon or
required to be performed by the
incumbent for the time being of
the said office or employment,
whether such last mentioned
duties are regulated or imposed
by any Act or Acts heretofore
passed by the legislature of any
province of Canada before it be
came part of Canada, or which
have been or may hereafter be
passed by the Parliament of
Canada, or by any ordinance,
order in council or regulations
made under any such Act, or by
any law otherwise in force in
Canada, and whether such duties
are extended, increased or other
wise varied or altered by any
such Act or Acts, so to be passed,
or by any such ordinance, order
in council or regulations or any
such law as aforesaid, or are regu
lated or imposed, or are extended,
increased or otherwise varied or
altered by competent authority;
and,
(6) Duly account for and pay
over all such moneys or securities
for money or valuable securities
or property as shall come into his
hands, custody or control, by
virtue of or in consequence of his
holding the said office;
And further, if the principal
upon his removal from, or his
resignation of the said office or
employment, or if, in the event of
his death during his tenure of the
said office or employment, his
legal representatives, or some or
one of them, do and shall quietly
surrender and deliver up the
same, and all the moneys, securi
ties for money, valuable securi
ties, or property, books, papers,
instruments, instructions, maps,
plans, letters and writings, and
other things whatever, which
then may be, or ought to be, in
his possession, custody or keep
ing, by virtue of or in consequence
of his holding the said office, or
anything relating or in any wise
appertaining thereto;
Then the above obligation shall
be void and of no effect; otherwise
the same shall be and remain in
full force and virtue.

## FORM B
AFFIDAVITS TO BE ANNEXED TO THE BOND
of
WIT :
the obligor (or one of the sureties), in the above
writing obligatory named, make oath and say, as
seized and possessed to my own use of real (or real
estate in the Province of , in Canada,
value of $ , over and above all charges
affecting the same.

**2.** My post office address is as follows:
before me, at
in the of
this day of AX).
19
a J.P. for the
A separate affidavit to be made by the obligor and by each
surety.

## FORM C
AFFIDAVIT OF WITNESS
PROVINCE of
To WIT :
I,
of the of , in the of
in the Province of , make oath and say that I was
personally present, and did see the obligors in the
above bond or writing obligatory named, duly execute the said
instrument by signing, sealing, and, as their respective acts and
deeds, delivering the same ; and that I am a subscribing witness
to such execution.
SWORN before me, at
in the of
this day of A.D.
19
a J.P. for the
A separate affidavit in this form shall be made by a witness
to the execution by each obligor, if the same person does not
witness the execution by all oj them.
R.S., c. 225, Sch.
