
# CHAPTER P-31
Act respecting inventions by public
servants

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Public
Servants Inventions Act. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"appropriate Minister" in relation to a public
servant means the Minister who under the
Financial Administration Act is the appro
priate Minister with respect to the depart
ment in which the public servant is
employed ;
"department" means a department as defined
in the Financial Administration Act, and
includes a Crown Corporation named in
Schedule C to that Act ;
"invention" means any new and useful art,
process, machine, manufacture or composi
tion of matter, or any new and useful
improvement in any art, process, machine,
manufacture or composition of matter;
"public servant" means any person employed
in a department, and includes a member of
the Canadian Forces or the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 2.

## INVENTIONS VESTED IN THE CROWN

**3.** The following inventions, and all rights
with respect thereto in Canada or elsewhere,
vested in Her Majesty in right of Canada,
namely,
  * (_a_) an invention made by a public servant
  * (_i_) while acting within the scope of his
duties or employment, or
  * (_ii_) with facilities, equipment or financial
aid provided by or on behalf of Her
Majesty, and
(6) an invention made by a public servant
that resulted from or is connected with his
duties or employment. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Every public servant who invents an
invention
  * (_a_) shall inform the appropriate Minister
of the invention and shall furnish to him
such information and documents with
respect thereto as he requires ;
(6) shall not file outside Canada an applica
tion for a patent in respect of the invention
without the written consent of the appro
priate Minister ; and
  * (_c_) shall, in any application in Canada for
a patent in respect of the invention, disclose
in his application that he is a public servant.
(2) If it appears to the Commissioner of
Patents that an application for a patent
relates to an invention made by a public
servant, the Commissioner shall inform the
appropriate Minister of the application and
give to the Minister such information with
respect thereto as the Minister requires. 1953-
54, c. 40, s. 4.

**5.** (1) Whenever any question arises as to
whether an invention is vested in Her Majesty
by this Act, the appropriate Minister shall,
within three months after the question is
referred to him, determine the question.
(2) If the appropriate Minister determines
that an invention is by this Act vested in Her
Majesty, the inventor or other person claiming
an interest in the invention may, within thirty
days from the date the determination is
notified to him or such longer period as the
appropriate Minister may allow, appeal to
the Exchequer Court.
(3) If no determination is made by the
appropriate Minister within the time specified
thirty days after the expiration of the
so specified, apply to the Exchequer
Court to have the question determined.
(4) Whenever the appropriate Minister has
made a determination under this section he
shall forthwith in writing notify the inventor
thereof. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 5.

**6.** Notwithstanding anything in the Patent
Act, the appropriate Minister may file an
application, naming the inventor, for a patent
for an invention vested in Her Majesty by
this Act, and any patent issued on such an
application shall be issued in the name of
Her Majest} or otherwise as directed by the
appropriate Minister. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 6.

**7.** A public servant who has made an
invention vested in Her Majesty by this Act
shall execute all documents required by the
appropriate Minister in connection with the
filing of an application for a patent therefor
in Canada or elsewhere. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The appropriate Minister may on
behalf of Her Majesty waive, abandon or
transfer all or any of the rights in respect of
any invention vested in Her Majesty by this
Act or in respect of any invention made or to
be made by any public servant, and may
execute any instrument to give effect thereto.
(2) No interest in an invention coming
within section 20 or 21 of the Patent Act shall
be waived, abandoned or transferred under
this section without the approval of the
Minister of National Defence, and no interest
in an invention coming within section 22 of
that Act shall be waived, abandoned or
transferred under this section without the
approval of the Atomic Energy Control
Board. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The administration and control of
. ,. j TT * ^i
an &amp;gt; invention vested in Her Majesty by this
and any patent issued with respect thereto
vested in the appropriate Minister, and
appropriate Minister may transfer such
administration and control to any other
Minister or to any corporate agency of Her
Majesty.
(2) The appropriate Minister or other
Minister or agency referred to in subsection
(1) may develop and exploit any invention
under the administration and control of such
Minister or agency, as the case may be, and
may on behalf of Her Majesty enter into any
agreement with any person for such purpose.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in its charter
or Act of incorporation, an agency to which
the administration and control of any inven
tion or patent is transferred under this section
has the capacity and power to receive, hold,
administer, control, develop and exploit the
invention or patent and generally to carry
out the provisions of this Act with respect
thereto.
(4) Where pursuant to this section the
administration and control of any invention
or patent has been transferred to a corporate
agency of Her Majesty, any money received
by the corporate agency in the course of the
administration and control of the invention
or patent may be retained by that corporate
agency, and shall be used for the purposes of
this Act and the objects and purposes for
which the agency was established. 1953-54, c.
40,s.9; 1959, c. 8, s. 1.

## AWARDS

**10.** Subject to the regulations, the appro
priate Minister may authorize the payment
of an award to a public servant who makes
an invention that is vested in Her Majesty by
this Act, in such amount as the appropriate
Minister and the public servant may agree
upon or as the appropriate Minister deter
mines. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 10.

## PENALTIES

**11.** Every person who violates subsection
or section 7 is guilty of an offence and
on summary conviction to a fine of five
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a term
six months, or to both. 1953-54, c. 40;s. 11.

## REGULATIONS
J2. The Governor in Council may make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act, and without restricting
the generality of the foregoing, may make
regulations:
  * (_a_) prescribing rules of practice and proce
dure respecting
  * (_i_) applications for patents pursuant to
this Act,
  * (_ii_) the determination of questions wheth
er an invention is vested in Her Majesty
by this Act, and
  * (_iii_) any appeal or application under this
Act to the Exchequer Court ;
(6) prescribing the information to be fur
nished in any application for a patent in
respect of an invention made by a public
servant ; and
  * (_c_) prescribing the amount of and the
method of calculating and determining the
awards to be paid under this Act and the
manner and time of payment. 1953-54, c.
40, s. 12.

## GENERAL
13, (i) Where there are two or more
. , , . . . ,
appropriate Ministers with respect to any
invention, any one of such appropriate
Ministers may in relation to that invention
act as the appropriate Minister under this
Act.
(2) This Act applies to the interest of a
public servant in an invention made jointly
by him and another person who is not a
public servant. 1953-54, c. 40, s. 13.

**14.** This Act applies to
  * (_a_) all inventions made after the 1st day of
June 1954, and
(6) all inventions, whenever made, in respect
of which an application for a patent is
made in Canada after the 1st day of June

**1954.** 1953-54, c. 40, s. 14.
