Service Employment Act. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
closed competition" means a competition
that is open only to persons employed in
the Public Service ;
Commission" means the Public Service
Commission ;
commissioner" means a member of the
Commission, and includes the Chairman ;
department" means a department named in
Schedule A to the Financial Administration
Act and any division or branch of the Public
Service designated by the Governor in
Council as a department for the purposes
of this Act ;
deputy head" means
  * (_a_) in relation to a department named in
Schedule A to the Financial Administration
Act, the deputy minister thereof, and in
relation to any division or branch of the
Public Service designated under the defini
tion "department", such person as the
Governor in Council may designate as the
deputy head for the purposes of this Act,
and
  * (_b_) in relation to any other portion of the
Public Service to which the Commission
has the exclusive right and authority to
appoint persons, the chief executive officer
thereof or, if there is no chief executive
officer, such person as the Governor in
Council may designate as the deputy head
for the purposes of this Act ;
"employee" means a person employed in that
part of the Public Service to which the
Commission has the exclusive right and
authority to appoint persons;
"lay-off" means a person who has been laid
off pursuant to subsection 29(1) and who, in
the opinion of the Commission, is suitable
for appointment under this Act;
"local office" means an office established to
serve an area comprising a part but not the
whole of Canada;
"Minister", except in section 9, means any
member of the Queen s Privy Council for
Canada holding the office of a Minister of
the Crown ;
"open competition" means a competition that
is open to persons who are employed in the
Public Service as well as to persons who are
not so employed ;
"Public Service" has the same meaning as in
the Public Service Staff Relations Act.
(2) For the purpose of being eligible to
enter competitions and for the purposes of
sections 11 and 13, the following persons shall
be deemed to be persons employed in the
Public Service, namely:
  * (_a_) members of the Royal Canadian Mount
ed Police ;
  * (_b_) members of the Canadian Forces; and
  * (_c_) persons not otherwise employed in the
Public Service who are employees in or
under an}- portion of the public service of
Canada designated by the Governor in
Council pursuant to section 35.
(3) Unless the context otherwise requires,
  * (_a_) a reference in this Act to a deputy head
in relation to an employee shall be construed
as a reference to the deputy head of the
department or the deputy head in relation
to the portion of the Public Service, as the
case may be, in which the employee is
employed; and
(6) a reference in this Act to a deputy head
in relation to a department or other portion
of the Public Service shall be construed as
a reference to the deputy head of that
department or the deputy head in relation
to that portion of the Public Service, as the
case may be, to which the context extends.
1966-67, c. 71,s.2.

## PARTI

## PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Commission Established

**3.** (1) There shall be a Commission, to be
called the Public Service Commission, con
sisting of a Chairman and two other members
to be appointed by the Governor in Council.
(2) Subject to this section, a commissioner
holds office during good behaviour for a
period of ten years, but may be removed at
any time by the Governor in Council upon
address of the Senate and House of Commons.
(3) A commissioner, on the expiration of
his first or a subsequent term of office, is
eligible to be re-appointed for a further term
not exceeding ten years.
(4) A commissioner ceases to hold office
upon attaining the age of sixty-five years,
except that where the Governor in Council is
of opinion that it would be in the public
interest to extend the term of office of a
commissioner beyond that age, he may, on
the recommendation of the Prime Minister,
extend the term of office beyond the age of
sixty-five years for one period not exceeding
five years.
(5) The rank and standing of each commis
sioner is that of a deputy head of a
department.
(6) There shall be paid to each commissioner
out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such
salary or allowances as may be fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(7) A commissioner shall not hold any other
office in the Public Service or engage in any
other employment.
(8) Each commissioner shall, before assum-
ing the duties of his office, take and subscribe
before the Clerk of the Privy Council the
oath or affirmation set out in Schedule I.
1966-67, c. 71,s.3.

**4.** (1) The Chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Commission.
(2) The Governor in Council may authorize
any commissioner to act as Chairman for the
time being in the event that the Chairman is
absent or unable to act or if the office is
vacant.
(3) A majority of the commissioners consti
tutes a quorum of the Commission.
(4) A vacancy in the membership of the
Commission does not impair the right of the
remainder to act.
(5) T ne Commission may sit at such times
and places as it considers necessary or desirable
for the proper conduct of its business. 1966-
67, c. 71,s.4.
General Powers and Duties of Commission

**5.** The Commission shall
  * (_a_) appoint or provide for the appointment
of qualified persons to or from within the
Public Service in accordance with the
provisions and principles of this Act ;
  * (_b_) operate and assist deputy heads in the
operation of staff training and development
programs in the Public Service ;
  * (_c_) engage competent persons to assist the
Commission in the performance of its
duties ;
  * (_d_) establish boards to make recommenda
tions to the Commission on matters referred
to such boards under section 6, to render
decisions on appeals made to such boards
under sections 21 and 31 and to render
decisions on matters referred to such boards
under section 32 ;
  * (_e_) report to the Governor in Council upon
such matters arising out of or relating to
the administration or operation of this Act
and the regulations as the Commission
considers desirable ; and
0) perform such other duties and functions
with reference to the Public Service as are
assigned to it by the Governor in Council.
1966-67, c. 71,s.5.
Delegation of Authority

**6.** (1) The Commission may authorize a
deputy head to exercise and perform, in such
manner and subject to such terms and
conditions as the Commission directs, any of
the powers, functions and duties of the
Commission under this Act, other than the
powers, functions and duties of the Commis
sion in relation to appeals under sections 21
and 31 and inquiries under section 32.
(2) Where the Commission is of opinion
  * (_a_) that a person who has been or is about
to be appointed to or from within the Public
Service pursuant to authority granted by it
under this section, does not have the
qualifications that are necessary to perform
the duties of the position he occupies or
would occupy, or
(6) that the appointment of a person to or
from within the Public Service pursuant to
authority granted by it under this section
has been or would be in contravention of
the terms and conditions under which the
authority was granted,
the Commission, notwithstanding anything
in this Act but subject to subsection (3), shall
revoke the appointment or direct that the
appointment not be made, as the case may
be, and may thereupon appoint that person
at a level that in the opinion of the
Commission is commensurate with his qualifi
cations.
(3) An appointment from within the Public
Service may be revoked by the Commission
pursuant to subsection (2) only upon the
recommendation of a board established by it
to conduct an inquiry at which the employee
and the deputy head concerned, or their
representatives, are given an opportunity of
being heard.
(4) The Commission may, from time to
time as it sees fit, revise or rescind and
reinstate the authority granted by it pursuant
to this section.
(5) Subject to subsection (6) a deputy head
may authorize one or more persons under his
jurisdiction to exercise and perform any of
the powers, functions or duties of the deputy
head under this Act including, subject to the
approval of the Commission and in accordance
with the authority granted by it under this
section, any of the powers, functions and
duties that the Commission has authorized
the deputy head to exercise and perform.
(6) In the absence of the deputy head, the
person designated by the deputy head or, if
no person has been so designated or there is
no deputy head, the person designated by the
person who under the Financial Administration
Act is the appropriate Minister with respect
to the department or other portion of the
Public Service, or such other person as may
be designated by the Governor in Council,
has and may exercise the powers, functions
and duties of the deputy head. 1966-67, c. 71,
s. 6.
Records and Inquiries

**7.** (1) Deputy heads and employees shall
give the Commission such access to their
respective offices and such facilities, assistance
and information as the Commission may
require for the performance of its duties.
(2) In connection with, and for the purposes
of, any investigation or report, the Commis
sion or a commissioner holding an investiga
tion has all the powers of a commissioner
appointed under Part II of the Inquiries Act
and for the purposes of that Part shall be
deemed to have been appointed under that
Part. 1966-67, c. 7l,s.7.

## PART II

## APPOINTMENT
Authority to Appoint

**8.** Except as provided in this Act, the
Commission has the exclusive right and
authority to make appointments to or from
within the Public Service of persons for whose
appointment there is no authority in or under
other Act of Parliament. 1966-67, c. 71, s.

**9.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to limit or affect the right or authority of Her
Majesty to appoint
  * (_a_) ambassadors,
(6) ministers,
  * (_c_) high commissioners, or
  * (_d_) consuls-general of Canada,
to any other country, or other persons to
represent Canada in another country. 1966-
67, c. 71,s.9.
Appointments and Selection Standards

**10.** Appointments to or from within the
Public Service shall be based on selection
according to merit, as determined by the
Commission, and shall be made by the
Commission, at the request of the deputy
head concerned, by competition or by such
other process of personnel selection designed
to establish the merit of candidates as the
Commission considers is in the best interests
of the Public Service. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 10.

**11.** Appointments shall be made from
within the Public Service except where, in the
opinion of the Commission, it is not in the
best interests of the Public Service to do so.
1966-67, c. 71, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Commission may, in determin
ing pursuant to section 10 the basis of
assessment of merit in relation to any position
or class of positions, prescribe selection
standards as to education, knowledge, experi
ence, language, age, residence or any other
matters that, in the opinion of the Commis
sion, are necessary or desirable having regard
to the nature of the duties to be performed,
but any such selection standards shall not be
inconsistent with any classification standard
sex, race, national origin, colour or religion.
(3) The Commission shall from time to time
consult with representatives of any employee
organization certified as a bargaining agent
under the Public Service Staff Relations Actor
with the employer as defined in that Act,
with respect to the selection standards that
may be prescribed under subsection (1) or the
principles governing the appraisal, promotion,
demotion, transfer, lay-off or release of
employees, at the request of such representa
tives or of the employer or where in the
opinion of the Commission such consultation
is necessary or desirable. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 12.
Competitions

**13.** Before conducting a competition, the
Commission shall
  * (_a_) determine the area in which applicants
must reside in order to be eligible for
appointment ; and
(6) in the case of a closed competition,
determine the part, if any, of the Public
Service and the occupational nature and
level of positions, if any, in which prospec
tive candidates must be employed in order
to be eligible for appointment. 1966-67, c.
71, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Commission shall give such
notice of a proposed competition as in its
opinion will give all eligible persons a
reasonable opportunity of making an applica
tion.
(2) A notice under subsection (1) shall be
given in both the English and French
languages together, unless the Commission
otherwise directs in any case or class of cases.
1966-67, c. 71, s. 14.

**15.** Applications shall be in such form and
shall be made and verified in such manner as
the Commission determines. 1966-67, c. 71, s.

**15.**

**16.** (1) The Commission shall examine and
consider all applications received within the
prescribed by it for the receipt of
applications and, after considering such
further material and conducting such exami
nations, tests, interviews and investigations
as it considers necessary or desirable, shall
select the candidates who are qualified for
the position or positions in relation to which
the competition is conducted.
(2) An examination, test or interview under
this section, when conducted for the purpose
of determining the education, knowledge and
experience of the candidate or any other
matter referred to in section 12 except
language, shall be conducted in the English
or French language or both, at the option of
the candidate, and when conducted for the
purpose of determining the qualifications of
the candidate in the knowledge and use of
the English or French language or both, or of
a third language, shall be conducted in the
language or languages in the knowledge and
use of which his qualifications are to be
determined.
(3) Where, in the case of an open competi
tion, the Commission is of opinion that there
are sufficient qualified applicants who are
  * (_a_) persons in receipt of a pension by reason
of war service as defined in Schedule II,
(6) persons who are veterans as defined in
Schedule II and who do not come within
paragraph (a), or persons who are widows
of veterans as defined in Schedule II, or
  * (_c_) persons who are Canadian citizens who
do not come within paragraph (a) or (6),
to enable the Commission to establish an
eligible list in accordance with this Act, the
Commission may confine its selection of
qualified candidates under subsection (1) to
applicants
  * (_d_) who come within paragraph (a),
  * (_e_) who come within paragraphs (a) and (b),
or
(/) who come within paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c). 1966-67, c. 71, s. 16.

**17.** (1) From among the qualified candi
dates in a competition the Commission shall
select and place the highest ranking candidates
on one or more lists, to be known as eligible
lists, as the Commission considers necessary
of time as may be determined by the
Commission in any case or class of cases.
(3) When establishing an eligible list in the
case of a closed competition, the Commission
shall place the qualified candidates thereon
in order of merit.
(4) When establishing an eligible list in the
case of an open competition, the Commission
shall, after complying with section 16 and
after conducting such further investigations
as it considers necessary, proceed in accordance
with the following principles :
  * (_a_) persons who come within paragraph
16(3)(a) and who are qualified shall be
placed, in order of merit, ahead of other
successful candidates;
(6) persons who come within paragraph
16(3)(6) and who are qualified shall be
placed, in order of merit, on the list
immediately following any candidates men
tioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
  * (_c_) persons who come within paragraph
16(3)(c) and who are qualified shall be
placed, in order of merit, after any
candidates mentioned in either paragraph
  * (_a_) or (6) of this subsection; and
  * (_d_) persons who do not come within para
graph 16(3)(a),(6) or(c) and who are qualified
shall be placed, in order of merit, after any
candidates who come within those para
graphs.
(5) Nothing prescribed by or under this or
any other Act as to the age limit and physical
requirements with respect to any appointment
to the Public Service applies to a person who
comes within paragraph 16(3)(a) or (b), if the
Commission certifies that he is of such an age
and in such a satisfactory physical condition
that he is then able to perform the duties of
the position and will probably be able to
continue to do so for a reasonable period after
his appointment. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 17.
J8. Where an appointment under this Act
i i L
is to be made to a position by competition,
the appointment shall be made from an
eligible list established for that position or
for positions of a similar occupational nature
and level, but where such list is exhausted,
the appointment may be made from an
eligible list established for positions of a
similar occupational nature at a higher level.
1966-67, c. 71, s. 18.

**19.** Where an appointment is to be made
to a local office, the Commission in making
the appointment from outside the Public
Service shall, whenever it is in the best
interests of the Public Service to do so, give
preference in appointment to qualified can
didates who reside in the area served by the
local office over qualified candidates who do
not so reside. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 19.

**20.** Employees appointed to serve in any
department or other portion of the Public
Service, or part thereof, shall be qualified in
the knowledge and use of the English or
French language or both, to the extent that
the Commission deems necessary in order that
the functions of such department, portion or
part can be performed adequately and
effective service can be provided to the public.
1966-67, c. 71,s.20.
2 1. Where a person is appointed or is about
to be appointed under this Act and the
selection of the person for appointment was
made from within the Public Service
  * (_a_) by closed competition, every unsuccess
ful candidate, or
  * (_b_) without competition, every person whose
opportunity for advancement, in the opin
ion of the Commission, has been prejudi
cially affected,
may, within such period as the Commission
prescribes, appeal against the appointment to
a board established by the Commission to
conduct an inquiry at which the person
appealing and the deputy head concerned, or
their representatives, are given an opportunity
of being heard, and upon being notified of
the board s decision on the inquiry the
Commission shall,
  * (_c_) if the appointment has been made,
confirm or revoke the appointment, or

## PART III

## EMPLOYMENT
Tenure

**22.** An appointment under this Act takes
effect on the date specified in the instrument
appointment. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 22.

**23.** Every deputy head and employee
shall, upon appointment from outside the
Public Service, take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation of allegiance and the oath or
affirmation set out in Schedule III. 1966-67,
c. 71, s. 23.

**24.** The tenure of office of an employee is
during the pleasure of Her Majesty, subject
to this and any other Act and the regulations
thereunder and, unless some other period of
employment is specified, for an indeterminate
period. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 24.

**25.** An employee who is appointed for a
specified period ceases to be an employee at
the expiration of that period. 1966-67, c. 71, s.

**25.**

**26.** An employee may resign from the
Public Service by giving to the deputy head
notice in writing of his intention to resign
and the employee ceases to be an employee
on the day as of which the deputy head
accepts in writing his resignation. 1966-67, c.
71,s.26.

**27.** An employee who is absent from duty
for a period of one week or more, otherwise
than for reasons over which, in the opinion of
the deputy head, the employee has no control
or otherwise than as authorized or provided
for by or under the authority of an Act of
Parliament, may by an appropriate instru
ment in writing to the Commission be declared
by the deputy head to have abandoned the
position he occupied, and thereupon the
employee ceases to be an employee. 1966-67,
c. 71,s.27.
Probation

**28.** (1) An employee shall be considered to
be on probation from the date of his
appointment until the end of such period as
the Commission may establish for any
employee or class of employees.
reduce or waive the probationary period.
(3) The deputy head may, at any time
during the probationary period, give notice
to the employee and to the Commission that
he intends to reject the employee for cause at
the end of such notice period as the
Commission may establish for any employee
or class of employees and, unless the Com
mission appoints the employee to another
position in the Public Service before the end
of the notice period applicable in the case of
the employee, he ceases to be an employee at
the end of that period.
(4) Where a deputy head gives notice that
he intends to reject an employee for cause
pursuant to subsection (3) he shall furnish to
the Commission his reasons therefor.
(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
a person who ceases to be an employee
pursuant to subsection (3)
  * (_a_) shall, if the appointment held by him
was made from within the Public Service,
and
  * (_b_) may, in any other case,
be placed by the Commission on such eligible
list and in such place thereon as in the
opinion of the Commission is commensurate
with his qualifications. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 28.
Lay-Offs

**29.** (1) Where the services of an employee
are no longer required because of lack of work
or because of the discontinuance of a function,
the deputy head, in accordance with regula
tions of the Commission, may lay off the
employee.
(2) An employee ceases to be an employee
when he is laid off pursuant to subsection (1).
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the Commission shall, within such period and
in such order as it may determine, consider a
lay-off for appointment, without competition
and, subject to sections 30 and 37, in priority
to all other persons, to any position in the
Public Service for which in the opinion of the
Commission he is qualified.
which he would have been eligible had he not
been laid off. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 29.
Leave of Absence
3Q. (1) Where an employee is on leave of
absence and another person has been appoint
ed for an indeterminate period to the position
that was occupied by him, the employee is
entitled, during his leave of absence and for
a period of one year thereafter, to be
appointed, without competition and in pri
ority to all other persons, to another position
in the Public Service for which in the opinion
of the Commission he is qualified.
(2) Where, during the time that an employee
was on leave of absence, another person was
appointed for an indeterminate period to the
position previously occupied by the employee,
if the employee returns to the position
previously occupied by him, the other person
is entitled, for a period of one year after the
employee returns to that position, to be
appointed, without competition and in pri
ority to all other persons, to a position in the
Public Service for which in the opinion of the
Commission he is qualified.
(3) The Commission shall determine the
order in which those persons to whom
subsections (1) and (2) apply are to be
appointed to positions in the Public Service.
1966-67, c. 71,s.30.
Incompetence and Incapacity

**31.** (1) Where an employee, in the opinion
of the deputy head, is incompetent in
performing the duties of the position he
occupies or is incapable of performing those
duties and should
  * (_a_) be appointed to a position at a lower
maximum rate of pay, or
  * (_b_) be released,
the deputy head may recommend to the
Commission that the employee be so appoint
ed or released, as the case may be.
(2) The deputy head shall give notice in
to an employee of a recommendation
the employee be appointed to a position
a lower maximum rate of pay or be
(3) Within such period after receiving the
notice in writing mentioned in subsection (2)
as the Commission prescribes, the employee
may appeal against the recommendation of
the deputy head to a board established by
the Commission to conduct an inquiry at
which the employee and the deputy head
concerned, or their representatives, are given
an opportunity of being heard, and upon
being notified of the board s decision on the
inquiry the Commission shall,
  * (_a_) notify the deputy head concerned that
his recommendation will not be acted upon,
or
  * (_b_) appoint the employee to a position at a
lower maximum rate of pay, or release the
employee,
accordingly as the decision of the board
requires.
(4) if no appeal is made against a recom
mendation of the deputy head, the Commis
sion may take such action with regard to the
recommendation as the Commission sees fit.
(5) The Commission may release an
employee pursuant to a recommendation
under this section and the employee thereupon
ceases to be an employee. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 31.
Political Partisanship

**32.** (1) No deputy head and, except as
authorized under this section, no employee,
shall
  * (_a_) engage in work for, on behalf of or
against a candidate for election as a member
of the House of Commons, a member of the
legislature of a province or a member of the
Council of the Yukon Territory or the
Northwest Territories, or engage in work
for, on behalf of or against a political
party; or
(6) be a candidate for election as a member
described in paragraph (a).
(2) A person does not contravene subsection
(1) by reason only of his attending a political
meeting or contributing money for the funds
of a candidate for election as a member
described in paragraph (l)(a) or money for
the funds of a political party.
(3) Notwithstanding any other Act, upon
application made to the Commission by an
employee the Commission may, if it is of the
opinion that the usefulness to the Public
Service of the employee in the position he
then occupies would not be impaired by
reason of his having been a candidate for
election as a member described in paragraph
(l)(a), grant to the employee leave of absence
without pay to seek nomination as a candidate
and to be a candidate for election as such a
member, for a period ending on the day on
which the results of the election are officially
declared or on such earlier day as may be
requested by the employee if he has ceased to
be a candidate.
(4) Forthwith upon granting any leave of
absence under subsection (3), the Commission
shall cause notice of its action to be published
in the Canada Gazette.
(5) An employee who is declared elected as
a member described in paragraph (l)(a)
thereupon ceases to be an employee.
(6) Where any allegation is made to the
Commission by a person who is or has been a
candidate for election as a member described
in paragraph (l)(a), that a deputy head or
employee has contravened subsection (1), the
allegation shall be referred to a board
established by the Commission to conduct an
inquiry at which the person making the
allegation and the deputy head or employee
concerned, or their representatives, are given
an opportunity of being heard, and upon
being notified of the board s decision on the
inquiry the Commission,
  * (_a_) in the case of a deputy head, shall
report the decision to the Governor in
Council who may, if the board has decided
that the deputy head has contravened
subsection (1), dismiss him ; and
  * (_b_) in the case of an employee, may, if the
board has decided that the employee has
contravened subsection (1), dismiss the
employee.
(7) In the application of subsection (6) to
any person, the expression "deputy head"
does not include a person for whose removal
from office, otherwise than by the termination
of his appointment at pleasure, express
is made by this or any other Act.
1966-67, c. 71,s.32.

## PART IV

## GENERAL
Regulations

**33.** Subject to this Act, the Commission
may make such regulations as it considers
necessary to carry out and give effect to this
Act. 1966-67, c. 71,s.33.

**34.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) applying all or any of the provisions of
this Act to all or any of the positions of
persons mentioned in subsection 37(1);
(6) notwithstanding any other Act, apply
ing all or any of the provisions of this Act
that do not otherwise apply, including the
provisions relating to appointments, to any
portion or part of any portion of the Public
Service ; and
  * (_c_) prescribing the manner in which inqui
ries shall be instituted and conducted for
the purposes of section 32.
(2) Where a regulation made pursuant to
paragraph (l)(b) provides for a matter for
which provision is made in or under any other
Act, the other Act, during the time that the
regulation is in force, shall be deemed to
make no provision for that matter either
therein or thereunder. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 34.

**33.** (1) The Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the Commission, may
make regulations prescribing how positions or
persons, wholly or partly excluded under
section 39, shall be dealt with.
(2) The Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the Commission, may
from time to time designate any portion of
the public service of Canada as a part of the
Public Service ; and the employees in or under
that portion of the public service so designated
who are not otherwise employed in the Public
Service shall be deemed, for the purposes
mentioned in subsection 2(2), to be persons
employed in the Public Service.
(3) The Governor in Council, on the
of the Commission, may
time to time revoke any designation
subsection (2). 1966-67, c. 71, s. 35.
Rate of Pay on Appointment

**36.** Subject to any direction of a special or
general character that may be made pursuant
to the Financial Administration Act, the
Commission may make an appointment to a
position at any rate in the scale of rates of
pay that may be established for that position
or for positions of the same occupational
nature and level as that position. 1966-67, c.
71,s.36.
Ministers Staffs

**37.** (1) A Minister may appoint his Execu
tive Assistant and other persons required in
his office.
(2) A person who is employed in the office
of a Minister ceases to be so employed thirty
days after the person holding the position of
such Minister ceases to hold that position.
(3) A person who
  * (_a_) was an employee immediately before he
became employed in the office of a Minister,
or
(6) during the time that he was employed
in the office of a Minister, qualified for
appointment under this Act to the Public
Service
is entitled, for a period of one year from the
day on which he ceases to be so employed, to
be appointed without competition and, subject
to section 30, in priority to all other persons,
to a position in the Public Service for which
in the opinion of the Commission he is
qualified.
(4) A person who for at least three years
has been employed as Executive Assistant,
Special Assistant or Private Secretary to a
Minister, or in any of those capacities
successively, is entitled, for a period of one
year from the day on which he ceases to be
so employed, to be appointed without com
petition and, subject to section 30 and
subsection (3) of this section, in priority to all
of private secretary to a deputy head,
for which in the opinion of the Commission
he is qualified.
(5) The Commission shall determine the
order in which those persons to whom
subsection (3) or (4) applies are to be appointed
to positions in the Public Service.
(6) This section applies to a person
employed in the office of the person holding
the recognized position of Leader of the
Opposition in the House of Commons, Leader
of the Government in the Senate or Leader
of the Opposition in the Senate, as it applies
to a person employed in the office of a
Minister. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 37.
Other Public Officials

**38.** The Governor in Council may appoint
and fix the remuneration of
  * (_a_) the Clerk of the Privy Council ;
  * (_b_) the Clerk of the Senate ;
  * (_c_) the Clerk of the House of Commons;
and
  * (_d_) the Secretary to the Governor General.
1966-67,c.71,s.38.
Exclusions

**39.** In any case where the Commission
decides that it is not practicable nor in the
best interests of the Public Service to apply
this Act or any provision thereof to any
position or person or class of positions or
persons, the Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, exclude
such position or person or class of positions or
persons in whole or in part from the operation
of this Act; and the Commission may, with
the approval of the Governor in Council, re-
apply any of the provisions of this Act to any
position or person so excluded. 1966-67, c, 71,
s. 39.
Irregularities and Fraudulent Practices

**40.** Where the Commission is satisfied that
any irregularity or fraudulent practice has
obtained at an examination held by it or by
any person deputed by it, the Commission
may summon before it by a summons, in the
form of Schedule IV, signed by the Chairman
or by any one of the commissioners, and may
examine under oath or affirmation any person
who, in its opinion, is in a position to give
evidence in relation to such irregularity or
fraudulent practice. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 40.

**41.** Where a person,
  * (_a_) whose name is on an eligible list, or
  * (_b_) who has been appointed under this Act
to the Public Service,
is proved upon an inquiry to have been
concerned in any fraudulent practice, or to
have been guilty of any breach of the
regulations with respect to any examination
held under the authority of this Act, the
Commission may remove his name from the
list or, if he has been appointed, the
Commission may revoke his appointment
retroactively to the date thereof. 1966-67, c.
71,s.41.

**42.** Every person who, at any examination
held under this Act, personates any candidate
or employs, induces or allows any person to
personate him or connives or assists at any
personation is guilty of an offence punishable
on summary conviction. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 42.

**43.** Every person who surreptitiously pro
cures from any printer or other person, and
every person who, without authority, furnishes
to any other person any examination paper
or any other paper relating to an examination
held under this Act is guilty of an offence
punishable on summary conviction. 1966-67,
c. 71,s.43.
Oaths

**44.** The Governor in Council may author
ize any person to administer oaths and take
and receive affidavits, declarations and affir
mations for any of the purposes of this Act or
the regulations. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 44.
Report to Parliament

**45.** The Commission shall, within five
months after the 31st day of December in
each year, transmit to the Minister designated
the Governor in Council for the purposes
of this section a report and statement of the
transactions and affairs of the Commission
during that year, the nature of any action
taken by it under subsection 6(1) or (4), and
the positions and persons, if any, excluded
under section 39 in whole or in part from the
operation of this Act and the reasons therefor,
and that Minister shall cause the report and
statement to be laid before Parliament within
fifteen days after the receipt thereof or, if
Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the
first fifteen days next thereafter that Parlia
ment is sitting. 1966-67, c. 71, s. 45.
Application of Act

**46.** (1) This Act applies to all employees
whether appointed before, on or after the 13th
day of March 1967.
(2) A reference in any of the provisions of
this Act to a period of employment shall be
construed as including employment before as
well as on or after the 13th day of March

**1967.** 1966-67, c. 71,8.46.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE I

## OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICE

## OF COMMISSIONER
I, .. .do solemnly and sincerely swear (or affirm)
that I will truly and faithfully, and to the best of my skill
and knowledge, execute and perform the office of (Commis
sioner or Chairman, as the case may be) of the Public Service
Commission. (In the case where an oath is taken add, "So
help me God"). 1966-67, c. 71, Sch. A.

## SCHEDULE II
DEFINITIONS (Section 16)

**1.** For the purposes of section 16 and this schedule,
"member of the Women s Royal Naval Services" means a
person who
  * (_a_) enrolled in the Women s Royal Naval Service,
  * (_b_) enrolled in Queen Alexandra s Royal Naval Nursing
Service or the reserve therefor, or
  * (_c_) enrolled as a medical or dental practitioner employed
with the Medical Branch or Dental Branch of the Royal
Navy with naval status for general service;
"person in receipt of a pension by reason of war service" means
a person who is in receipt of a pension
  * (_a_) by reason of his service in World War I, or
  * (_b_) by reason of his service only in World War II, and who
at the commencement of such service was domiciled in
Canada or Newfoundland,
who has from causes attributable to such service lost
capacity for physical exertion to an extent that makes him
unfit to pursue efficiently the vocation that he was pursuing
before the war, and who has not been successfully re-estab
lished in some other vocation;
"veteran" means a person who
  * (_a_) during World War I was on active service overseas in
the naval, army or air forces or who served on the high
seas in a seagoing ship of war in the naval forces of His
Majesty or of any of the Allies of His Majesty, and who has
left such service with an honourable record or has been
honourably discharged,
  * (_b_) during World War II was on active service
  * (_i_) in the naval, army or air forces of His Majesty or any
of His Majesty s Allies and at the commencement of his
active service was domiciled in Canada or Newfoundland,
or
  * (_ii_) in the naval, army or air forces of Canada, and, not
being domiciled in Canada at the commencement of his
active service, is a Canadian citizen,
and who, in the course of such service, performed duties
outside of the Western Hemisphere, or on the high seas in a
ship or other vessel service that was, at the time he per
formed those duties, classed as sea time" for the purpose
of the advancement of naval ratings, or that would have
been so classed had the ship or other vessel been in the
service of the naval forces of Canada,
  * (_c_) during World War II served as a member of the
Women s Royal Naval Services or as a member of the South
African Military Nursing Service outside of the Western
Hemisphere and who, at the commencement of her service
during World War II, was domiciled in Canada or New
foundland,
  * (_d_) has been certified by the Under Secretary of State for
External Affairs as having been enrolled in. Canada or New
foundland by United Kingdom authorities for special duty
during World War II in war areas outside of the Western
Hemisphere, and who served outside of the Western
Hemisphere, and at the time of his enrolment was domiciled
in Canada or Newfoundland, or
  * (_e_) during World War II served outside of the Western
Hemisphere with the naval, army or air forces of His Majesty
raised in Canada or Newfoundland as a representative of
Canadian Legion War Services Inc., the National Council
of the Young Men s Christian Associations of Canada,
Knights of Columbus Canadian Army Huts, or Salvation
Army Canadian War Services, and who was authorized so
to serve by the appropriate naval, army or air force authority
and who, at the commencement of his service with those
forces during World War II, was domiciled in Canada or
Newfoundland,
but, notwithstanding anything in this paragraph, does not
include a person who
(/) served outside of the Western Hemisphere or on the
high seas only in that he w.as a passenger in an aircraft, ship
or other vessel, or only in that he underwent a limited period
of training in an aircraft, ship or other vessel incidental to a
program of instruction, or
  * (_g_) by reason of his misconduct, since the 10th day of
September 1939, ceased to serve in the naval, army or air
forces of His Majesty or of any of His Majesty s Allies, or
to be a member of the Women s Royal Naval Services or
the South African Military Nursing Service, or to be enrolled
for the special duty mentioned in this paragraph or to
serve with the forces as a representative of Canadian Legion
War Services Inc., the National Council of the Young Men s
Christian Associations of Canada, Knights of Columbus
Canadian Army Huts, or Salvation Army Canadian War
Services ;
"Western Hemisphere" means the continents of North and
South America, the islands adjacent thereto and the terri
torial waters thereof, including Newfoundland, Bermuda and
the West Indies, but excluding Greenland, Iceland and the
Aleutian Islands ;
"widow of a veteran" means the widow of a person who, being a
veteran, died from causes arising during the service by virtue
of which he became a veteran;
"World War I" means the war declared by His Majesty on the
4th day of August 1914 against the Empire of Germany and
subsequently, against other powers;
"World War II" means the war declared by His Majesty on
the 10th day of September 1939 against the German Reich
and subsequently against Italy, Finland, Hungary, Rumania
and Japan.
European and Mediterranean Theatres of War, on the 8th
day of May 1945 ; and
  * (_b_) in respect of service in connection with operations in
the Pacific Theatre of War, on the 15th day of August 1945.

**3.** A reference in any Act or regulation to section 28 or 29 of
the Civil Service Act, chapter 48 of the Revised Statutes of
Canada, 1952, or any of the provisions thereof, shall be con
strued as a reference to the corresponding provisions of this
Act. 1966-67, c. 71, Sch. B.

## SCHEDULE III

## OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICE

## AND SECRECY
I, A.B., solemnly and sincerely swear (or affirm) that I
will faithfully and honestly fulfil the duties that devolve upon
me by reason of my employment in the Public Service and
that I will not, without due authority in that behalf, disclose
or make known any matter that comes to my knowledge by
reason of such employment. (In the case where an oath is
taken add, "So help me God"). 1966-67, c. 71, Sch. C.

## SCHEDULE IV

## SUMMONS TO AN INQUIRY
To
You are hereby required to appear before the Public Service
Commission at on the day of
at o clock in the noon to testify the
truth according to your knowledge in a certain inquiry pending
before the Public Service Commission respecting
(The following words may be added if the production of any
paper or document is required.)
and that you bring with you and then and there produce the
following documents :
Dated at this day of

## A.D
Public Service Commissioner
1966-67, c. 71, Sch. D.
