
# CHAPTER P-38
An Act respecting the public works of Canada

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Public
Works Act. R.S., c. 228, s. 1.

## APPLICATION

**2.** This Act is divided into two Parts; Part
I applies exclusively to the Department of
Public Works and the public works and
property under the control of that Department
but Part II is not by this section limited in
its application. R.S., c. 228, s. 2.

## PARTI
Interpretation

**3.** In this Part
"Department" means the Department of
Public Works ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Public
Works;
"public work" or "public works" means any
work or property under the control of the
Minister. R.S., c. 228, s. 3.
Department of Public Works

**4.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Public Works over which the Minister of
Public Works appointed by commission under
the Great Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
of the Department, and holds office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 228, s. 4.

**5.** (i) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister
of Public Works to hold office during pleasure.
(2) A secretary for the Department, one or
more chief engineers, a chief architect, and
such other officers as are necessary for the
proper conduct of the business of the
Department, may be appointed in the manner
authorized by law. R.S., c. 228, s. 5.

**6.** The Secretary of the Department shall,
unless otherwise directed in any case by the
Minister,
  * (_a_) keep separate accounts of the moneys
appropriated for and expended on each
public work ;
(6) submit such accounts to be audited in
such manner as is appointed by law or by
the Governor in Council ;
  * (_c_) have charge of all plans, contracts,
estimates, documents, titles, models and
other like things relating to any such work ;
  * (_d_) keep proper accounts with each contrac
tor or other person employed by or under
the Department ;
  * (_e_) see that all contracts are properly drawn
up and executed ;
  * (_f_) prepare all certificates upon which any
certificate for the payment of money is to
issue ;
  * (_g_) keep minutes of all proceedings of the
Department ;
  * (_h_) prepare reports and conduct under the
direction of the Minister the correspondence
of the Department ; and
  * (_i_) generally do and perform all such acts
and things appertaining to the business of
the Department as are from time to time
required by the Minister. R.S., c. 228, s. 6.

**7.** j n case O f the absence of the Secretary
or of his inability to act, the Minister may in
writing authorize some other officer of the
Department to act for the time in his stead.
R.S., c. 228, s. 7.
g. The Chief Engineer or the Chief
, , ,
  * (_a_) prepare maps, plans and estimates for
all public works that are about to be
constructed, altered or repaired;
  * (_b_) report for the information of the
Minister on any question relating to any
public work that is submitted to him ;
  * (_c_) examine and revise the plans, estimates
and recommendations of other engineers,
architects and officers in respect of any
public work ; and
  * (_d_) generally advise the Minister on all
engineering or architectural questions
affecting any public work. R.S., c. 228, s. 8.
Powers of the Minister

**9.** (1) The Minister has the management,
charge and direction of the following proper
ties belonging to Canada, and of the services
in this section enumerated, namely :
  * (_a_) the dams, the hydraulic works, the
construction and repair of harbours, piers
and works for improving the navigation of
any water, and the vessels, dredges, scows,
tools, implements and machinery for the
improvement of navigation ;
(6) the slides, dams, piers, booms and other
works for facilitating the transmission of
timber, the collection of slidage and
boomage dues and matters incident thereto,
and the officers or persons employed in
that service ;
  * (_c_) the roads and bridges ;
  * (_d_) the public buildings ;
  * (_e_) the telegraph lines;
  * (_f_) the heating, maintenance and keeping
in repair of the Government buildings at
the seat of government and any alteration
from time to time requisite therein, and the
supplying of furniture and fittings or repairs
to the same ;
  * (_g_) all such portions of the property known
as the Ordnance property as were transferred
to the Government of the former Province
of Canada or to the Government of Canada
by the Government of the United Kingdom,
and afterwards placed under the control of
the Department ;
  * (_h_) all other property that now belongs to
Canada and the works and properties
acquired, constructed, extended, enlarged,
repaired or improved at the expense of
Canada, or for the acquisition, construction,
repairing, extending, enlarging or improv
ing of which any public money is voted and
appropriated by Parliament, except works
any such purpose.
(2) The Minister has the control, manage
ment and administration of all lands belong
ing to Her Majesty in right of Canada except
lands specially under the control, management
or administration of any other Minister,
department, branch or agency of the Govern
ment of Canada. R.S., c. 228, s. 9; 1966-67, c.
25,s.21.

**10.** Nothing in section 9 shall be deemed
to confer upon the Minister the management,
charge or direction of such public works as are
  * (_a_) lawfully transferred to any province
forming part of Canada ;
(6) leased, sold or otherwise lawfully trans
ferred to municipalities, incorporated com
panies or others, unless they are subject to
be and are resumed by Her Majesty in
virtue of any Act, or of any lease, sale or
transfer thereof or relating thereto ;
  * (_c_) placed, by or under the authority of this
Act or any other Act of the Parliament of
Canada, under the control and management
of any other minister or department ; or
  * (_d_) by proclamation abandoned, or left to
the control of municipal or local authorities.
R.S., c. 228, s. 10.

**11.** The Governor in Council may, by
proclamation, declare any public road or
bridge under the management and control of
the Minister to be no longer under his
management and control ; and upon, from
and after a day to be named in the
proclamation, such road or bridge ceases to
be under the management and control of the
Minister, and no tolls shall thereafter be
levied thereon under the authority of this
Act. R.S., c. 228, s. 11.

**12.** The Minister shall direct the construc
tion, maintenance and repair of all harbours,
roads or parts of roads, bridges, slides and
other public works or buildings constructed or
R.S., c. 228, s. 12.

**13.** Nothing in this Act authorizes the
Minister to cause expenditure not previously
sanctioned by Parliament, except for such
repairs and alterations as the necessities of
the public service demand. R.S., c. 228, s. 13.

**14.** The Minister or the Deputy Minister
may require any account sent in by any
contractor, or by any person in the employ of
the Department, to be attested on oath, and
the oath, as well as that to be taken by any
witness, may be administered by the Minister
or the Deputy Minister. R.S., c. 228, s. 14.

**15.** (1) The Minister may send for and
^i 11 i i
examine, on oath, all such persons as he
deems necessary, respecting any matter upon
which his action is required, and may cause
such persons to bring with them such papers,
plans, books, documents and things as it is
necessary to examine with reference to such
matter, and may pay such persons a reasonable
compensation for their time and disburse
ments.
(2) Such persons shall comply with the
summons of the Minister, after due notice;
and every person so summoned who neglects
or refuses to attend and be examined shall
incur a penalty of twenty dollars. R.S., c. 228,
s. 15.

**16.** (1) The Minister, in all cases in which
any public work is being carried out by
contract, shall take all reasonable care that
good and sufficient security is given to and
in the name of Her Majesty, for the due
performance of the work within the amount
and time specified for its completion.
(2) In all cases in which it seems to the
Minister not to be expedient to let such work
to the lowest tenderer, he shall report the
same and obtain the authority of the Governor
in Council before passing by such lowest
tender. R.S., c. 228, s. 16.

**17.** No sum of money shall be paid to the
contractor on any contract nor shall any work
be commenced, until the contract has been
signed by all the parties therein named, nor
until the requisite security has been given.
c. 228, s. 17.
Execution of Contracts

**18.** No deed, contract, document or writing
in respect of any matter under the control or
direction of the Minister shall be binding on
Her Majesty or be deemed to be the act of
the Minister, unless it is signed by him or by
the Deputy Minister and countersigned by
the Secretary of the Department or the person
authorized to act for him. R.S., c. 228, s. 18.
Evidence

**19.** A copy of any map, plan, or other
document in the custody of the Secretary of
the Department, certified by him to be a true
copy, shall be held to be authentic, and is
prima facie of the same legal effect as the
original in any court or elsewhere. R.S., c.
228, s. 19.
Sale or Transfer of Public Works to Local
Authorities

**20.** (1) The Minister may enter into
arrangements with any provincial govern
ment, municipal council, or other local
corporation or authority, or with any company
in the Province of Ontario or Quebec,
incorporated for the purpose of constructing
or holding the works mentioned in this section,
or works of like nature in the same province,
for the transfer to them of any of the public
roads, harbours, rivers or river improvements,
bridges or public buildings, whether within or
outside the limits of the local jurisdiction of
such municipal council or other authorities,
that it is found convenient to place under
their management.
(2) On the completion of such arrangements,
the Governor in Council may grant, and, by
so granting, transfer and convey for ever or
for any term of years, all or any of such roads,
harbours, rivers and river improvements,
bridges or public buildings, to such provincial
government, municipal council or other local
corporation or authority or company, upon
such terms and conditions as are agreed upon ;
and the said governments, municipal councils
or other local authorities may enter into such
arrangements and may take and hold any
so transferred. R.S., c. 228, s. 20.
2 1. (1) Any grant under section 20 may be
made by order in council, and by such order
any or all of the powers and rights vested in
the Crown, or in any officer or department,
in respect of such public work, may be granted
to and vested in the grantee to whom the
public work is granted.
(2) Such order in council may contain any
conditions, clauses and limitations agreed
upon which, as well as all the provisions of
such order in council, shall, in so far as they
are not inconsistent with this Act, and do not
purport to grant any right or power not
immediately before the making of such order
in council vested in the Crown or in the
Governor in Council, or in some officer or
department of the Government, have force
and shall be obeyed as if they had been
contained in this Act and had formed part
thereof.
(3) Any such order in council may, with the
consent of the grantee, be revoked or amended
by any subsequent order in council, and the
consent of the grantee thereto shall be
presumed unless disputed by the grantee,
and, if disputed, may be proved by any copy
of such order in council, on which the consent
of the grantee thereto is written and attested
by such signature or seal, or both, as would
be sufficient to make any deed or agreement
the deed or agreement of the grantee. R.S., c.
228,s.21.

**22.** (1) The provisions and conditions of
any such order in council may extend to
  * (_a_) the mode of adjusting and determining
any difference arising between the Crown
and any municipal corporation, local
authority or company, as to their respective
rights under the order ; or
  * (_b_) the reservation of the right of re-entry
by the Crown into possession of any public
work on the default of such corporation,
authority or company to perform the
conditions agreed upon ; and
  * (_c_) the vesting in any sheriff of power to
give possession of such public work to any
public officer for the Crown, on any warrant,
under the hand and seal of the Governor
General, addressed to such sheriff, reciting
such default and commanding him to give
possession to such officer for the Crown as
aforesaid.
(2) No enactment made for the purpose of
enforcing any such order in council shall be
deemed an infringement of the rights of the
municipal corporation, local authority or
company to which it relates, and nothing in
this section prevents the enforcement of the
rights of the Crown in any lawful manner not
inconsistent with the provisions and conditions
of any such order in council. R.S., c. 228, s.

**22.**

**23.** One of the conditions of every such
lease or transfer of any bridge, road or public
work, shall be that such work shall be kept in
thorough repair, and that, for all the purposes
of such contract, sale or lease, the sufficiency
of such repair shall be ascertained and decided
on by such engineer as the Minister appoints
to examine the same. R.S., c. 228, s. 23.
Tolls and Dues

**24.** (1) The Governor in Council may
impose and authorize the collection of tolls
and dues upon any public work vested in Her
Majesty, and may, from time to time, in like
manner alter and change such tolls or dues,
and may declare the exemptions therefrom ;
and all such tolls and dues are payable in
advance and before the right to the use of the
public work in respect of which they are
incurred accrues, if so demanded by the
collector thereof.
(2) All tolls and dues imposed under this
Part are recoverable, with costs, in any court
of competent jurisdiction by the collector or
person appointed to receive them, in his own
name, or in the name of Her Majesty, and by
any form of proceeding by which debts to the
Crown are recoverable.
(3) The goods on board of any steamboat,
vessel, raft, crib or other craft, and the animal
or animals attached to any carriage or vehicle,
and the goods contained therein, to whomever
they belong, are liable for any tolls, dues or
imposed and levied under this Part
and they may be seized, detained and sold in
the same manner as the steamboat, vessel,
raft, crib or other craft, carriage or vehicle in
which they are or to which they are attached,
as if they belonged to the person violating
any such regulation, saving the recourse of
the real owner thereof against such person
who is deemed the owner for the purposes of
this Act. R.S., c. 228, s. 24.

**25.** Officers and men of Her Majesty s
forces, being in proper uniform, dress or
undress, except when passing in any hired or
private vehicle, and all vehicles, carriages and
horses employed in Her Majesty s service,
when conveying persons or baggage, are
exempted from payment of any tolls on using
or travelling over any road or bridge under
the control of the Minister. R.S., c. 228, s. 25.

**26.** All tolls, dues or other revenues
imposed and collected on public works shall
be paid by the persons receiving them to the
Receiver General in such manner and at such
intervals as he appoints, but such intervals
shall, in no case, exceed one month. R.S., c.
228,s.26; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**27.** The Governor in Council may order
the tolls at the several gates erected on any
public road or bridge vested in the Crown to
be let to farm, under such regulations and by
such form of lease as he thinks expedient ;
and the lessee or farmer of such tolls, or any
person he appoints, may demand and take
such tolls, and proceed for the recovery of the
same in the name of such lessee or farmer, in
case of non-payment or evasion thereof, in
the same manner and by the same means as
are given by law to any collector of tolls or
other person authorized to collect them. R.S.,
c. 228, s. 27.
Regulations

**28.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
such regulations as he deems necessary for
the management, maintenance, proper use
and protection of all or any of the public
or for the ascertaining and collection of
the tolls, dues and revenues thereon; and
may, by such regulations,
  * (_a_) impose such penalties not exceeding in
any one case four hundred dollars for any
violation of any such regulation as he
deems necessary for ensuring its observance
and the payment of the tolls and dues
imposed under the authority of this Part ;
and
(6) provide for the non-passing or detention
and seizure at the risk of the owner of any
steamboat, vessel or other craft, vehicle,
carriage, animal, timber or goods on which
tolls or dues have accrued and have not
been paid, or in respect of which any such
regulations have been violated or any injury
done to such public works and not paid for,
or for or on account of which any penalty
has been incurred and remains unpaid, and
for the sale thereof if such tolls, dues,
damages or penalty are not paid by the
time fixed for the purpose, and for the
payment of such tolls, dues, damages or
penalty out of the proceeds of such sale ;
but no such regulation impairs the right of
the Crown to recover such tolls, dues,
damages or penalty in the ordinary course
of law.
(2) The surplus proceeds of such sale, if
any, shall be returned to the owner or his
agent. R.S., c. 228, s. 28.
Offences and Penalties

**29.** Every one who is an officer or servant
of or a person employed by the Minister on
any public work, and who wilfully or
negligently violates any by-law, order or
regulation of the Department, or any order
in council lawfully made or in force respecting
the public work on which he is employed, and
of which a copy has been delivered to him, or
has been posted up or open to his inspection
in some place where his work or his duties, or
any of them, are to be performed, if such
violation causes injury to any property or to
any person, or exposes any property or any
person to the risk of injury, or renders such
risk greater than it would have been but for
violation, although no actual injury
occurs, is guilty of an indictable offence, and
is, according as the court before which the
conviction is had considers the offence proved
to be more or less grave, or the injury or risk
of injury to person or property to be more or
less great, liable to a penalty not exceeding
four hundred dollars, or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or to both.
R.S., c. 228, s. 29.

**30.** Where such violation does not cause
injury to any property or person, or expose
any property or person to the risk of injury,
or make such risk greater than it would have
been but for such violation, the officer, servant
or other person guilty thereof shall incur a
penalty, not exceeding the amount of thirty
days pay and not less than fifteen days pay
of the offender from the Department, in the
discretion of the justice of the peace before
whom the conviction is had ; and such penalty
is recoverable, with costs, before any justice
of the peace having jurisdiction where the
offence has been committed or where the
offender is found. R.S., c. 228, s. 30.
3 1. A moiety of every pecuniary penalty
recovered under either section 29 or 30 belongs
to Her Majesty for the public uses of Canada,
and the other moiety belongs to the informer,
unless he is an officer or a servant of or person
in the employ of the Minister, in which case
the whole penalty belongs to Her Majesty for
the uses aforesaid. R.S., c. 228, s. 31.
Recovery of Dues and Penalties

**32.** (1) All pecuniary penalties imposed by
this Part, or by any regulation made under
the authority thereof, are recoverable, with
costs under the provisions of the Criminal
Code relating to summary convictions, before
any justice of the peace for the district, county
or place in which the offence was committed,
and if sufficient distress cannot be found, and
such penalty is not forthwith paid, the justice
may, by warrant under his hand and seal,
cause the person offending to be imprisoned
exceeding thirty days, unless such penalty
and costs are sooner paid.
(2) Such penalties, except as hereinbefore
provided, belong to Her Majesty, for the
public uses of Canada. R.S., c. 228, s. 32.

**33.** All tolls and dues on timber passing
any slide, and, notwithstanding anything in
section 32, all penalties for violating any
regulation respecting such slides, or for non
payment of such tolls and dues, may be
enforced, imposed and collected by and before
any justice of the peace within any district or
county in Canada in which the timber
respecting which such tolls or dues, or the
person from whom such payment or penalty
is demanded, happens to be at the time when
application is made to such justice to enforce
payment of the same. R.S., c. 228, s. 33.
Report

**34.** The Minister shall make and submit to
the Governor General an annual report on all
the works under his control, and the annual
report shall be laid before both Houses of
Parliament within twenty-one days after the
commencement of the session, showing the
state of each work and the amounts received
and expended in respect thereof, with such
further information as is requisite. R.S., c.
228, s. 34.

## PART II
General

**35.** (1) The Governor in Council may at
any time transfer the management, charge
and direction of any public work, or any
power, duty, or function with respect to any
work or class of works, whether public or
private, that is assigned to or vested by statute
in any minister or department, to any other
minister or department; and from the date
appointed for that purpose by the Governor
in Council, such power, duty, or function
shall be transferred to, and vested in such
other minister or department ; and the
provisions of this Act, so far as they are
applicable, apply to any work or property the
maintenance, repair, control or management
which is transferred under this section.
(2) Any such transfer may from time to
time be made although the subject-matter
thereof has theretofore been transferred from
one department to another under the authori
ty of this section. R.S., c. 228, s. 35.

**36.** Where a work is to be executed under
the direction of a department of the Govern
ment, the minister having charge of that
department shall invite tenders by public
advertisement for the execution of the work,
except in cases where
  * (_a_) the work is one of pressing emergency
in which the delay would be injurious to
the public interest ;
(6) the work can be more expeditiously and
economically executed by the employees of
the department concerned ; or
  * (_c_) the estimated cost of the work is less
than fifteen thousand dollars, and it appears
to the minister, in view of the nature of the
work, that it is not advisable to invite
tenders. R.S., c. 228, s. 36.

**37.** Whenever the Governor in Council, or
tne minister charged with any work for the
improvement of navigation, directs any work
to be performed in any navigable water for
the improvement of the navigation thereof, it
is lawful for the officers or servants of Her
Majesty or the contractors for the work, under
the direction of the Governor in Council or
of the minister, to enter upon, dig up, dredge
and remove any part of the bed of such
navigable water, or to build or erect any works
thereon, as may be directed or authorized by
the Governor in Council or by the minister
for the improvement of the navigation. R.S.,
c. 228, s. 37.

**38.** Every public road or bridge declared
by proclamation of the Governor in Council,
under the authority of Part I, to be no longer
under the management and control of the
Minister of Public Works, and not placed, by
or under the authority of this Act or any
other Act, under the control and management
of any other minister or department, shall be
under the control of and shall be maintained
and kept in repair by the municipal or other
authorities of the locality and the road officers
thereof, in like manner as other public roads
and bridges therein under their control. R.S.,
c. 228, s. 38.

**39.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act
or in any other Act, any public work not
required for public purposes may be sold or
leased, under the authority of the Governor
in Council, and the proceeds of such sale or
lease shall be accounted for as public moneys ;
but such public work shall be so sold or leased
by tender or at auction after public advertise
ment, unless it is otherwise authorized by the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 228, s. 39.

**40.** The Governor in Council may, from
time to time, require any person, or any
provincial authority, having the possession or
custody of any maps, plans, specifications,
estimates, reports or other paper, books,
drawings, instruments, models, contracts,
documents or records, that are not private
property and that relate to any public work,
to deliver them forthwith to the secretary or
proper officer of the department charged with
the management and control of such public
work. R.S., c. 228, s. 41.

**41.** All actions, suits and other proceedings
at law or in equity, for the enforcement of
any contract, agreement or obligation in
respect of any public work, may be instituted
