
# CHAPTER P-4
An Act respecting patents of invention

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Patent Act.
R.S., c. 203, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act, and in any rule, regulation
or order made under it,
"applicant" includes an inventor and the
legal representatives of an applicant or
inventor ;
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
Patents;
"Exchequer Court" means the Exchequer
Court of Canada ;
"invention" means any new and useful art,
process, machine, manufacture or composi
tion of matter, or any new and useful
improvement in any art, process, machine,
manufacture or composition of matter;
"legal representatives" includes heirs, execu
tors, administrators, guardians, curators,
tutors, assigns and all other persons claiming
through or under applicants for patents and
patentees of inventions;
"Minister" means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs or such other Minister
of the Crown as may be appointed by the
Governor in Council to administer this Act ;
"patent" means letters patent for an inven
tion;
"patentee" means the person for the time
being entitled to the benefit of a patent for
an invention ;
"prescribed fee" means a fee prescribed by
any rule or regulation made by the Governor
in Council pursuant to section 12;
and "rule" include rule, regula
tion and form ;
on a commercial scale" means the
manufacture of the article or the carrying
on of the process described and claimed in
a specification for a patent, in or by means
of a definite and substantial establishment
or organization and on a scale that is
adequate and reasonable under the circum
stances. R.S., c. 203, s. 2; 1966-67, c. 25, s.
38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 1.

## PATENT OFFICE AND OFFICERS

**3.** There shall be attached to the Depart
ment of Consumer and Corporate Affairs or
to such other department of the Government
of Canada as may be determined by the
Governor in Council an office called the
Patent Office. R.S., c. 203, s. 3; 1966-67, c. 25,
s. 38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint a Commissioner of Patents who shall,
under the direction of the Minister, exercise
and perform the powers and duties conferred
and imposed upon that officer by or pursuant
to this Act.
(2) The Commissioner shall receive all
applications, fees, papers, documents and
models for patents, shall perform and do all
acts and things requisite for the granting and
issuing of patents of invention, shall have the
charge and custody of the books, records,
papers, models, machines and other things
belonging to the Patent Office, and shall
have, for the purposes of this Act, all the
powers that are or may be given by the
Inquiries Act to a commissioner appointed
under Part II thereof.
(3) The Commissioner holds office during
pleasure and shall be paid such annual salary
as may be determined by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 203, s. 4.

**5.** (1) An Assistant Commissioner of Pat-
may be appointed in the manner
by law; he shall be a technical
experienced in the administration of
Patent Office.
(2) When the Commissioner is absent or
unable to act, the Assistant Commissioner, or,
if he also is at the same time absent or unable
to act, another officer designated by the
Minister, may and shall exercise the powers
and perform the duties of the Commissioner.
R.S., c. 203, s. 5.

**6.** There may be appointed in the manner
authorized by law, such principal examiners,
examiners, associate examiners and assistant
examiners, clerks, stenographers and other
assistants as are necessary for the administra
tion of this Act. R.S., c. 203, s. 6.

**7.** No officer or employee of the Patent
Office shall buy, sell, acquire or traffic in any
invention, patent or right to a patent, or any
interest in any thereof, and every purchase,
sale, assignment, acquisition or transfer of
any invention, patent or right to a patent, or
any interest in any thereof, made by or to
any such officer or employee is void, but this
section does not apply to a sale by an original
inventor or to an acquisition under the last
will, or by the intestacy, of a deceased person.
R.S., c. 203, s. 7.

**8.** Clerical errors in any instrument of
record in the Patent Office shall not be
construed as invalidating the instrument, but,
when discovered, they may be corrected by
certificate under the authority of the Com
missioner. R.S., c. 203, s. 8.

**9.** If any patent is destroyed or lost a
certified copy may be issued in lieu thereof
upon payment of the prescribed fee. R.S., c.
203, s. 9.

**10.** All specifications, drawings, models,
disclaimers, judgments, returns, and other
papers, except caveats, and except those filed
in connection with applications for patents
that are still pending or have been abandoned
be open to the inspection of the public
as are adopted in that behalf. R.S., c. 203,
s. 10.

**11.** Notwithstanding the exception in sec
tion 10, the Commissioner, upon the request
of any person who states in writing the name
of the inventor, if available, the title of the
invention and the number and date of a
patent said to have been granted in a named
country other than Canada, and who pays or
tenders the prescribed fee, shall inform such
person whether an application for a patent of
the same invention is or is not pending in
Canada. R.S., c. 203, s. 11.

## RULES AND REGULATIONS

**12.** (1) The Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the Minister, may make
such rules and regulations as may be deemed
expedient
  * (_a_) for carrying into effect the objects of
this Act, or for ensuring the due adminis
tration thereof by the Commissioner and
other officers and employees of the Patent
Office ;
(6) for carrying into effect the terms of any
treaty, convention, arrangement or engage
ment that subsists between Canada and any
other country ; and
  * (_c_) in particular, but without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, with respect to
the following matters
  * (_i_) the form and contents of applications
for patents,
  * (_ii_) the form of the Register of Patents
and of the indexes thereto,
  * (_iii_) the registration of assignments, trans
missions, licences, disclaimers, judgments
or other documents relating to any patent,
  * (_iv_) the form and contents of any certifi
cate issued pursuant to the terms of this
Act,
  * (_v_) the fees that may be charged in
respect of the filing of applications for
patents or the taking of other proceedings
under this Act or under any rule or
regulation made pursuant to this section,
or in respect of any services or the use of
any facilities provided thereunder by the
Commissioner or any person employed in
the Patent Office, and
  * (_vi_) the payment of any fees prescribed
by any rule or regulation made pursuant
to this section, including the time when
and the manner in which any such fees
shall be paid and the circumstances in
which any such fees previously paid may
be refunded in whole or in part.
(2) Any rule or regulation made by the
Governor in Council is of the same force and
effect as if it had been enacted herein. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 12 ; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 2.

## SEAL

**13.** (1) The Commissioner shall cause a
seal to be made for the purposes of this Act
and may cause to be sealed therewith every
patent and other instrument and copy thereof
issuing from the Patent Office.
(2) Every court, judge and person whosoever
shall take notice of the seal of the Patent
Office, and shall receive the impressions
thereof in evidence in like manner as the
impressions of the Great Seal are received in
evidence, and shall also take notice of and
receive in evidence, without further proof and
without production of the originals, all copies
or extracts certified under the seal of the
Patent Office to be copies of or extracts from
documents deposited in such office. R.S., c.
203, s. 13.

## PROOF OF PATENTS

**14.** In any action or proceeding respecting
a patent of invention authorized to be had or
taken in Canada under this Act a copy of any
patent granted in any other country, or any
official document connected therewith, pur
porting to be certified under the hand of the
proper officer of the government of the
country in which such patent has been
obtained, may be produced before the court
or a judge thereof, and the copy of such
patent or document purporting to be so
certified may be received in evidence without
production of the original and without proof
of the signature or of the official character of
the person appearing to have signed it. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 14.

## PATENT ATTORNEYS

**15.** (1) A register of attorneys shall be kept
in the Patent Office on which shall be entered
the names of all persons entitled to represent
applicants in the presentation and prosecution
of applications for patents or in other business
before the Patent Office.
(2) Entry on such register shall be made in
accordance with regulations to be made by
the Commissioner with the approval of the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 203, s. 15.

**16.** For gross misconduct or any other
cause that he may deem sufficient, the
Commissioner may refuse to recognize any
person as a patent agent or attorney either
generally or in any particular case. R.S., c.
203, s. 16.

## APPEALS
J7. j n a u cases where an appeal is provided
from the decision of the Commissioner to the
Exchequer Court under this Act, such appeal
shall be had and taken pursuant to the
Exchequer Court Act and the rules and practice
of that Court. R.S., c. 203, s. 17.

**18.** Whenever an appeal to the Exchequer
Court from the decision of the Commissioner
is permitted under this Act, notice of his
decision shall be mailed by the Commissioner
by registered letter addressed to the interested
parties or their respective agents and the
appeal shall be taken within three months
after the date of mailing of such notice, unless
otherwise extended by the Commissioner with
the approval of the Minister and unless herein
otherwise expressly provided. R.S., c. 203,
s. 18.

## USE OF PATENTS BY GOVERNMENT

**19.** The Government of Canada may, at
any time, use any patented invention, paying
to the patentee such sum as the Commissioner
reports to be a reasonable compensation for
the use thereof, and any decision of the
Commissioner under this section is subject to
appeal to the Exchequer Court. R.S., c. 203,
s. 19.

## GOVERNMENT OWNED PATENTS

**20.** (1) Any officer, servant or employee of
the Crown or of a corporation that is an agent
or servant of the Crown, who, acting within
the scope of his duties and employment as
such, invents any invention in instruments or
munitions of war, shall, if so required by the
Minister of National Defence, assign to such
Minister on behalf of Her Majesty all the
benefits of the invention and of any patent
obtained or to be obtained for the invention;
and any other person who invents any such
invention may so assign to such Minister on
behalf of Her Majesty all the benefits of the
invention and of any patent obtained or to
be obtained for the invention.
(2) An inventor, other than an officer,
servant or employee of the Crown or of a
corporation that is an agent or servant of the
Crown, acting within the scope of his duties
and employment as such, is entitled to
compensation for an assignment to the
Minister of National Defence under this Act ;
in the event that the consideration to be paid
for such assignment is not agreed upon it is
the duty of the Commissioner to determine
the amount of such consideration, but his
decision is subject to appeal to the Exchequer
Court ; proceedings before the Exchequer
Court under this subsection shall be held in
camera upon request made to the court by
any party to the proceedings.
(3) The assignment effectually vests the
benefit of the invention and patent in the
Minister of National Defence on behalf of
Her Majesty, and all covenants and agree
ments therein contained for keeping the
invention secret and otherwise are valid and
effectual, notwithstanding any want of valu
able consideration, and may be enforced
accordingly by the Minister of National
Defence.
(4) Any person who, as aforesaid, has made
an assignment under this section to the
Minister of National Defence, in respect of
any covenants and agreements contained in
such assignment for keeping the invention
secret and otherwise in respect of all matters
be, for the purposes of the Official Secrets Act,
deemed to be persons having in their
possession or control information respecting
those matters that has been entrusted to them
in confidence by any person holding office
under Her Majesty; and the communication
of any of that information by such first-
mentioned persons to any person other than
one to whom they are authorized to com
municate with, by or on behalf of the Minister
of National Defence, is an offence under
section 4 of the Official Secrets Act.
(5) Where any agreement for such assign
ment has been made, the Minister of National
Defence may submit an application for patent
for the invention to the Commissioner, with
the request that it be examined for patent
ability, and if such application is found
allowable may, before the grant of any patent
thereon, certify to the Commissioner that, in
the public interest, the particulars of the
invention and of the manner in which it is to
be worked are to be kept secret.
(6) If the Minister of National Defence so
certifies, the application and specification,
with the drawing, if any, and any amendment
of the application, and any copies of such
documents and drawing and the patent
granted thereon, shall be placed in a packet
sealed by the Commissioner under authority
of the Minister of National Defence.
(7) The packet shall, until the expiration
of the term during which a patent for the
invention may be in force, be kept sealed by
the Commissioner, and shall not be opened
save under the authority of an order of the
Minister of National Defence.
(8) The sealed packet shall be delivered at
any time during the continuance of the patent
to any person authorized by the Minister of
National Defence to receive it, and shall, if
returned to the Commissioner, be kept sealed
by him.
(9) On the expiration of the term of the
patent, the sealed packet shall be delivered
to the Minister of National Defence.
(10) No proceeding by petition or otherwise
lies to have declared invalid or void a patent
for an invention in relation to which
a certificate has been given by the Minister
of National Defence as aforesaid, except by
permission of the said Minister.
(11) No copy of any specification or other
document or drawing, by this section required
to be placed in a sealed packet, shall in any
manner whatever be published or open to the
inspection of the public, but, save as in this
section otherwise directed, this Act shall apply
in respect of any such invention and patent
as aforesaid.
(12) The Minister of National Defence may
at any time waive the benefit of this section
with respect to any particular invention, and
the specification, documents and drawing
shall be thenceforth kept and dealt with in
the regular way.
(13) N O claim shall be allowed in respect of
any infringement of a patent that occurred in
good faith during the time that such patent
was kept secret under this section ; and any
person who, before the publication of such
patent, had in good faith done any act that,
but for this subsection would have given rise
to any such claim, is entitled, after such
publication, to obtain a licence to manufac
ture, use and sell the patented invention on
such terms as may, in the absence of agreement
between the parties, be settled by the
Commissioner or by the Exchequer Court on
appeal from the Commissioner.
(14) The communication of any invention
for any improvement in munitions of war to
the Minister of National Defence or to any
person or persons authorized by the Minister
of National Defence to investigate the
invention or the merits thereof, shall not, nor
shall anything done for the purposes of the
investigation, be deemed use or publication
of such invention so as to prejudice the grant
or validity of any patent for the invention.
(15) The Governor in Council, if satisfied
that an invention relating to any instrument
or munition of war, described in any specified
application for patent not assigned to the
Minister of National Defence, is vital to the
defence of Canada and that the publication
of a patent therefor should be prevented in
order to preserve the safety of the State, may
order that such invention and application
and all the documents relating thereto shall
be treated for all purposes of this section as if
the invention had been assigned or agreed to
be assigned to the Minister of National
Defence.
(16) The Governor in Council may make
rules under this section for the purpose of
ensuring secrecy with respect to applications
and patents to which this section applies and
generally to give effect to the purpose and
intent thereof. R.S., c. 203, s. 20.
2 1. Where by any agreement between the
Government of Canada and any other
government it is provided that the Govern
ment of Canada will apply section 20 to
inventions disclosed in any application for a
patent assigned or agreed to be assigned by
the inventor to such other government, and
the Commissioner is notified by any minister
of the Crown that such agreement extends to
the invention in a specified application, such
application and all the documents relating
thereto shall be dealt with as provided in
section 20, except subsection (2), as if the said
invention had been assigned or agreed to be
assigned to the Minister of National Defence.
R.S., c. 203, s. 21.

## PATENTS RELATING TO ATOMIC ENERGY

**22.** Any patent application for an inven
tion that, in the opinion of the Commissioner,
relates to the production, application or use
of atomic energy shall, before it is dealt with
by an examiner appointed pursuant to section
6, be communicated by the Commissioner to
the Atomic Energy Control Board. R.S., c.
203, s. 22.

## GENERAL

**23.** No patent shall extend to prevent the
use of any invention in any ship, vessel,
aircraft or land vehicle of any other country,
Canada. R.S., c. 203, s. 23.

**24.** (1) Every patentee under this Act shall,
if possible, stamp or engrave on each patented
article sold or offered for sale by him notice
of the year of the date of the patent applying
to such article, thus : Patented, 1935, or as the
case may be.
(2) When, from the nature of any patented
article it cannot be so stamped or engraved
the patentee shall, if possible, affix to it, or
to every package wherein one or more of such
articles is or are enclosed, a label marked with
the like notice.
(3) When any patented article or material
is, from its nature or character, such that it
cannot be so stamped or engraved and cannot,
reasonably, be packaged or labelled, the
patentee shall, in all descriptive or advertising
matter published by him and relating to such
patented article or material, insert the like
notice. R.S., c. 203, s. 24.

**25.** In all proceedings before any court
under this Act the costs of the Commissioner
are in the discretion of the court, but the
Commissioner shall not be ordered to pay the
costs of any other of the parties. R.S., c. 203,
s. 25.

**26.** No relief, right or privilege granted to
or acquired by any patentee or other person
in respect of any patent or application for
any patent under chapter 44 of the Statutes
of Canada, 1921 is affected by the repeal of
that Act, but such relief, right or privilege
continues as if that Act had remained in
force. R.S., c. 203, s. 26.

**27.** The Commissioner shall, in each year,
cause to be prepared and laid before Parlia
ment a report of the proceedings under this
Act, and shall, from time to time and at least
once in each year, publish a list of all patents
granted, and may, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, cause such specifications
and drawings as are deemed of interest or
essential parts thereof, to be printed, from
time to time for distribution or sale. R.S.,
203, s. 27.

## APPLICATION FOR PATENTS

**28.** (1) Subject to the subsequent provisions
of this section, any inventor or legal represent^
ative of an inventor of an invention that was
  * (_o_) not known or used by any other person
before he invented it,
  * (_b_) not described in any patent or in any
publication printed in Canada or in any
other country more than two years before
presentation of the petition hereunder
mentioned, and
  * (_c_) not in public use or on sale in Canada
for more than two years prior to his
application in Canada,
may, on presentation to the Commissioner of
a petition setting forth the facts (in this Act
termed the filing of the application) and on
compliance with all other requirements of this
Act, obtain a patent granting to him an
exclusive property in such invention.
(2) Any inventor or legal representative of
an inventor who applies in Canada for a
patent for an invention for which application
for patent has been made in any other country
by such inventor or his legal representative
before the filing of the application in Canada
is not entitled to obtain in Canada a patent
for that invention unless his application in
Canada is filed, either
  * (_a_) before issue of any patent to such
inventor or his legal representative for the
same invention in any other country, or
(6) if a patent has issued in any other
country, within twelve months after the
filing of the first application by such
inventor or his legal representative for
patent for such invention in any other
country.
(3) No patent shall issue for an invention
that has an illicit object in view, or for any
mere scientific principle or abstract theorem.
R.S., c. 203, s. 28.
entitled to protection under the terms of any
treat} or convention relating to patents to
Canada is a party who has, or whose
agent or other legal representative has,
previously regularly filed an application for
a patent for the same invention in any other
country that by treaty, convention or law
affords similar privilege to citizens of Canada,
has the same force and effect as the same
application would have if filed in Canada on
the date on which the application for patent
for the same invention was first filed in such
other country, if the application in this
country is filed within twelve months from
the earliest date on which any such application
was filed in such other country or from the
13th day of June 1923.
(2) No patent shall be granted on an
application for a patent for an invention that
had been patented or described in a patent or
publication printed in Canada or any other
country more than two years before the date
of the actual filing of the application in
Canada, or had been in public use or on sale
in Canada for more than two years prior to
such filing. R.S., c. 203, s. 29.
3Q. No patent granted by virtue of The
Patent Act, chapter 23 of the Statutes of
Canada, 1923, or by virtue of this Act, on an
application filed prior to the 1st day of
August 1935, or within six months thereafter
and within two years of the date of the grant
of the first patent granted in any country
other than Canada for the same invention, is
void by reason of the date of filing of such
application having been more than twelve
months after the date of filing in such other
country of the first application for the same
invention or by reason of a patent having
been granted in such other country prior to
application in Canada. R.S., c. 203, s. 30.

**31.** (1) Any applicant for patent who does
not appear to reside or carry on business at a
specified address in Canada shall, at the time
of filing his application or within such period
thereafter as the Commissioner may allow,
nominate as his representative a person or
firm residing or carrying on business at a
specified address in Canada.
(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, such
nominee shall be deemed to be the represent
ative for all purposes of this Act, including
the service of any proceedings taken there
under, of any such applicant and of any
patentee of a patent issued on his application
who does not appear to reside or carry on
business at a specified address in Canada,
and shall be recorded as such by the
Commissioner.
(3) An applicant for patent or a patentee
may by written advice to the Commissioner
appoint another representative in place of the
latest recorded representative, or may advise
the Commissioner in writing of a change in
the address of the latest recorded representa
tive, and shall so appoint a new representative
or supply a new and correct address of the
latest recorded representative on the dispatch
by the Commissioner to him of a notice in
writing by registered mail that the latest
recorded representative has died or that a
letter addressed to him at the latest recorded
address and sent by ordinal y mail has been
returned undelivered.
(4) Where, after the dispatch of a notice as
aforesaid by the Commissioner, no new
appointment is made or no new and correct
address is supplied by the applicant or
patentee within three months or such further
period as the Commissioner may allow, the
Exchequer Court or the Commissioner may
dispose of any proceedings under this Act
without requiring service on the applicant or
patentee of any process therein.
(5) No fee is payable on the appointment
of a new representative or the supply of a
new and correct address, unless such appoint
ment or supply follows the dispatch of a
notice in writing by the Commissioner as
aforesaid, in which case a fee as prescribed is
payable. R.S., c. 203, s. 31.

**32.** Each application for a patent shall be
completed within twelve months after the
filing of the application, and in default
thereof, or upon failure of the applicant to
prosecute the application within six months
after any examiner, appointed pursuant to
section 6, has taken action thereon of which
notice has been given to the applicant, such
shall be deemed to have been
abandoned, but it may be reinstated on
petition presented to the Commissioner within
twelve months after the date on which it was
deemed to have been abandoned, and on
payment of the prescribed fee, if the petitioner
satisfies the Commissioner that the failure to
complete or prosecute the application within
the time specified was not reasonably avoid
able ; an application so reinstated shall retain
its original filing date. R.S., c. 203, s. 32.
JOINT APPLICATIONS

**33.** (1) Where an invention is made by two
or more inventors, and one of them refuses to
make application for a patent or his where
abouts cannot be ascertained after diligent
inquiry, the other inventor or his legal
representative may make application, and a
patent may be granted in the name of the
inventor who makes the application, on
satisfying the Commissioner that the joint
inventor has refused to make application or
that his whereabouts cannot be ascertained
after diligent inquiry.
(2) In any case where
  * (_a_) an applicant has agreed in writing to
assign a patent, when granted, to another
person or to a joint applicant and refuses
to proceed with the application, or
  * (_b_) disputes arise between joint applicants
as to proceeding with an application,
the Commissioner, on proof of such agreement
to his satisfaction, or if satisfied that one or
more of such joint applicants ought to be
allowed to proceed alone, may allow such
other person or joint applicant to proceed
with the application, and may grant a patent
to him, in such manner, however, that all
persons interested are entitled to be heard
before the Commissioner after such notice as
he may deem requisite and sufficient.
(3) Where an application is filed by joint
applicants, and it subsequently appears that
one or more of them has had no part in the
invention, the prosecution of such application
may be carried on by the remaining applicant
or applicants on satisfying the Commissioner
affidavit that the remaining applicant or
applicants is or are the sole inventor or
inventors.
(4) Where an application is filed by one or
more applicants and it subsequently appears
that one or more further applicants should
have been joined, such further applicant or
applicants may be joined on satisfying the
Commissioner that he or they should be so
joined, and that the omission of such further
applicant or applicants had been by inadver
tence or bona fide mistake and was not for the
purpose of delay.
(5) Subject to this section, in cases of joint
applications the patent shall be granted in
the names of all the applicants.
(6) An appeal lies to the Exchequer Court
from the decision of the Commissioner under
this section. R.S., c. 203, s. 33.

## IMPROVEMENTS

**34.** Any person who has invented any
improvement on any patented invention may
obtain a patent for such improvement, but he
does not thereby obtain the right of making,
vending or using the original invention, nor
does the patent for the original invention
confer the right of making, vending or using
the patented improvement. R.S., c. 203, s. 34.

## SPECIFICATIONS AND CLAIMS

**35.** The applicant shall, in his application
for a patent, insert the title or name of the
invention, and shall, with the application,
send in a specification in duplicate of the
invention and an additional or third copy of
the claim or claims. R.S., c. 203, s. 35.

**36.** (1) The applicant shall in the specifi
cation correctly and fully describe the inven
tion and its operation or use as contemplated
by the inventor, and set forth clearly the
various steps in a process, or the method of
constructing, making, compounding or using
machine, manufacture or composition of
in such full, clear, concise and exact
terms as to enable any person skilled in the
art or science to which it appertains, or with
which it is most closely connected, to make,
construct, compound or use it; in the case of
a machine he shall explain the principle
thereof and the best mode in which he has
contemplated the application of that princi
ple ; in the case of a process he shall explain
the necessary sequence, if any, of the various
steps, so as to distinguish the invention from
other inventions; he shall particularly indi
cate and distinctly claim the part, improve
ment or combination which he claims as his
invention.
(2) The specification shall end with a claim
or claims stating distinctly and in explicit
terms the things or combinations that the
applicant regards as new and in which he
claims an exclusive property or privilege.
R.S., c. 203, s. 36; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 3.

## EXAMINATION

**37.** Q n each application for a patent a
careful examination shall be made by compe
tent examiners to be employed in the Patent
Office for that purpose. R.S., c. 203, s. 37.
DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

**38.** (1) A patent shall be granted for one
invention only but in an action or other
proceeding a patent shall not be deemed to
be invalid by reason only that it has been
granted for more than one invention.
(2) Where an application describes and
claims more than one invention the applicant
may, and on the direction of the Commissioner
to that effect shall, limit his claims to one
invention only, and the invention or inven
tions defined in the other claims may be
made the subject of one or more divisional
applications, if such divisional applications
are filed before the issue of a patent on the
original application; but if the original
application becomes abandoned or forfeited,
the time for filing divisional applications
with the expiration of the time for
or restoring and reviving the
application under this Act or the
made thereunder.
(3) Such divisional applications shall be
deemed to be separate and distinct applica
tions under this Act, to which the provisions
thereof apply as fully as may be; separate
fees shall be paid on each of such applications
and they shall bear the filing date of the
original application. R.S., c. 203, s. 38.

## DRAWINGS AND MODELS

**39.** (i) j n the case of a machine, or in any
other case in which the invention admits of
illustration by means of drawings, the appli
cant shall also with his application, send in
drawings in duplicate, showing clearly all
parts of the invention ; each drawing shall
bear the signature of the inventor, or of the
applicant, or of the attorney of such inventor
or applicant, and shall have written references
corresponding with the specification, but the
Commissioner may require further drawings
or dispense with any of them as he sees fit.
(2) One duplicate of the specification and
of the drawings, if there are drawings, shall
be annexed to the patent, of which it shall
form an essential part, and the other duplicate
shall remain deposited in the Patent Office.
(3) The Commissioner may, in his discre
tion, dispense with the duplicate specification
and drawing and the third copy of the claim
or claims, and in lieu thereof cause copies of
the specification and drawing, in print or
otherwise, to be attached to the patent, of
which they shall form an essential part. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 39.

**40.** (1) In all cases in which the invention
admits of representation by model, the
applicant, if required by the Commissioner,
shall furnish a model of convenient size
exhibiting its several parts in due proportion ;
and when the invention is a composition of
matter, the applicant, if required by the
Commissioner, shall furnish specimens of the
ingredients, and of the composition, sufficient
in quantity for the purpose of experiment.
(2) If such ingredients or composition are
of an explosive or dangerous character, they
shall be furnished with such precautions as
are prescribed in the requisition therefor. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 40.

## CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND SUBSTANCES

**41.** (1) In the case of inventions relating
to substances prepared or produced by
chemical processes and intended for food or
me dicine, the specification shall not include
claims for the substance itself, except when
prepared or produced by the methods or
processes of manufacture particularly
described and claimed or by their obvious
chemical equivalents.
(2) In an action for infringement of a
patent where the invention relates to the
production of a new substance, any substance
of the same chemical composition and
constitution shall, in the absence of proof to
the contrary, be deemed to have been
produced by the patented process.
(3) In the case of any patent for an
invention intended or capable of being used
for the preparation or production of food, the
Commissioner shall, unless he sees good
reason to the contrary, grant to any person
applying for the same a licence limited to the
use of the invention for the purposes of the
preparation or production of food but not
otherwise; and, in settling the terms of the
licence and fixing the amount of royalty or
other consideration payable, the Commission
er shall have regard to the desirability of
making the food available to the public at
the lowest possible price consistent with giving
to the inventor due reward for the research
leading to the invention.
(4) Where, in the case of any patent for an
i nvent i n intended or capable of being used
for medicine or for the preparation or
production of medicine, an application is
made by any person for a licence to do one
or more of the following things as specified
in the application, namely :
  * (_a_) where the invention is a process, to use
the invention for the preparation or pro
duction of medicine, import any medicine
in the preparation or production of which
the invention has been used or sell any
medicine in the preparation or production
of which the invention has been used, or
(6) where the invention is other than a
process, to import, make, use or sell the
invention for medicine or for the prepara
tion or production of medicine,
the Commissioner shall grant to the applicant
a licence to do the things specified in the
application except such, if any, of those things
in respect of which he sees good reason not to
grant such a licence; and, in settling the
terms of the licence and fixing the amount of
royalty or other consideration payable, the
Commissioner shall have regard to the
desirability of making the medicine available
to the public at the lowest possible price
consistent with giving to the patentee due
reward for the research leading to the
invention and for such other factors as may
be prescribed.
(5) At any time after the expiration of six
months from the day on which a copy of an
application to the Commissioner pursuant to
subsection (4) is served on the patentee in
prescribed manner, the applicant may, if the
Commissioner has not finally disposed of the
application, request the Commissioner to
grant to him an interim licence to do such
one or more of the things specified in the
application as are specified in the request,
and the Commissioner shall, upon receipt of
such request, forthwith serve upon the pat
entee a notice stating that he may, within
such period as is specified by the Commissioner
in the notice, not exceeding twenty-one days
from the day the notice is served on the
patentee, make representations with respect
to the request.
(6) Upon the expiration of the period
specified by the Commissioner in the notice
to the patentee referred to in subsection (5),
the Commissioner shall, if he has not finally
disposed of the application, grant an interim
licence to the applicant to do the things
specified in the request except such, if any, of
things in respect of which he sees good
not to grant such an interim licence.
(7) Subsection (4) applies, mutatis mutandis,
settling the terms of an interim licence
granted pursuant to subsection (6) and fixing
the amount of royalty or other consideration
payable.
(8) The Commissioner shall not grant an
interim licence pursuant to subsection (6)
unless the applicant has filed with the
Commissioner a guarantee bond satisfactory
to the Commissioner, payable to Her Majesty
in right of Canada, to secure the payment by
the applicant of the royalties or other
consideration that may become payable to
the patentee under the interim licence.
(9) Subject to subsection (10), an interim
licence granted pursuant to subsection (6)
shall have effect according to its terms for an
initial period, not exceeding six months from
the day on which the interim licence is
granted, specified by the Commissioner in the
licence and may, in prescribed circumstances,
be renewed by order of the Commissioner for
a further period or periods not exceeding six
months in all.
(10) An interim licence granted to an
applicant pursuant to subsection (6) ceases to
have effect
  * (_a_) where the Commissioner grants a licence
to the applicant pursuant to his application
made under subsection (4), on the day on
which such licence becomes effective ; or
  * (_b_) where the Commissioner rejects such
application, on the expiration of the period
for which the interim licence is then in
effect.
(11) Any decision of the Commissioner
under this section is subject to appeal to the
Exchequer Court, except that a decision of
the Commissioner with respect to an interim
licence is final for all purposes and is not
subject to appeal or to review by any court.
(12) Notwithstanding subsection 67(2),
where the importation from abroad of an
invention or medicine by a licensee pursuant
hindering the working within Canada on a
commercial scale of the invention to which
the patent relates, the exclusive rights under
the patent shall not be deemed to have been
abused in any of the circumstances described
in paragraph 67(2)(a) or (6).
(13) Where an application is made pursuant
to subsection (4) or a request is made pursuant
to subsection (5), the Commissioner shall
forthwith give notice of such application or
request to the Department of National Health
and Welfare and to any other prescribed
department or agency of the Government of
Canada.
(14) The Governor in Council may make
rules or regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing anything that by this section
is to be prescribed ;
  * (_b_) regulating the procedure to be followed
on any application made pursuant to
subsection (3) or (4), including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
information to be contained in any such
application and the making of representa
tions to, and the adducing of evidence
before, the Commissioner with respect to
any such application;
  * (_c_) respecting the form and manner in
which an applicant or patentee may make
representations to, and adduce evidence
before, the Commissioner with respect to
any application or request referred to in
this section ;
  * (_d_) respecting the manner in which any
application, request, notice or other docu
ment referred to in this section or in any
regulation made under this subsection may
or shall be made, served, forwarded or
given ;
  * (_e_) providing for the making of representa
tions to the Commissioner on behalf of the
Government of Canada with respect to any
application or request referred to in subsec
tion (13) ; and
(/) generally, for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this section into effect.
(15) Any rules or regulations made under
. , . , ( . i
14(6) regulating the procedure to
be followed on any application made pursuant
to subsection (4) shall include provision for
the final disposal by the Commissioner of
such application not later than eighteen
months after the day on which a copy of the
application is served on the patentee in
prescribed manner.
Nothing in this section or in any licence
or i nte " m licence granted pursuant to this
section shall be construed as conferring upon
any person authority to prepare, produce,
import or sell any medicine contrary to, or
otherwise than in accordance with, the
requirements of the Food and Drugs Act and
the regulations thereunder and of any other
law applicable thereto. R.S., c. 203, s. 41;
1968-69, c. 49, s. 1.

## REFUSAL OF PATENTS
42 . Whenever the Commissioner is satisfied
that the applicant is not by law entitled to be
granted a patent he shall refuse the applica
tion and, by registered letter addressed to the
applicant or his registered agent, notify the
applicant of such refusal and of the ground
or reason therefor. R.S., c. 203, s. 42.

**43.** Whenever it appears to the Commis
sioner that the invention to which an
application relates has been, before the filing
of the application, described in a patent
granted in Canada or any other country, and
such application was filed within two years
after the date on which such patent was so
granted and the Commissioner entertains
doubts whether the patentee of such invention
is, as between him and the applicant, the first
inventor, the Commissioner shall, by regis
tered letter addressed to the applicant or his
registered agent, object to grant a patent on
such application and state, with sufficient
detail to enable the applicant, if he can, to
answer, the ground or reason for such
objection; the applicant has the right, within
such period or extended period of time as the
Commissioner may allow, to answer such
objection and if it is not in due course
answered to the satisfaction of the Commis-
sioner he shall refuse the application. R.S., c.
203, s. 43.

**44.** Every person who has failed to obtain
a patent by reason of a refusal or objection of
the Commissioner to grant it may, at any
time within six months after notice as provided
for in sections 42 and 43 has been mailed,
appeal from the decision of the Commissioner
to the Exchequer Court and that Court has
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine
such appeal. R.S., c. 203, s. 44.

## CONFLICTING APPLICATIONS

**45.** (1) Conflict between two or more
pending applications exists
  * (_a_) when each of them contains one or more
claims defining substantially the same
invention, or
(6) when one or more claims of one
application describe the invention disclosed
in the other application.
(2) When the Commissioner has before him
two or more such applications he shall notify
each of the applicants of the apparent conflict
and transmit to each of them a copy of the
conflicting claims, together with a copy of
this section; the Commissioner shall give to
each applicant the opportunity of inserting
the same or similar claims in his application
within a specified time.
(3) Where each of two or more of such
completed applications contains one or more
claims describing as new, and claims an
exclusive property or privilege in, things or
combinations so nearly identical that, in the
opinion of the Commissioner, separate patents
to different patentees should not be granted,
the Commissioner shall forthwith notify each
of the applicants to that effect.
(4) Each of the applicants, within a time to
be fixed by the Commissioner, shall either
if unable to make such claims owing to
knowledge of prior art, may submit to the
Commissioner such prior art alleged to
anticipate the claims ; thereupon each applica
tion shall be re-examined with reference to
such prior art, and the Commissioner shall
decide if the subject-matter of such claims is
patentable.
(5) Where the subject-matter is found to be
patentable and the conflicting claims are
retained in the applications, the Commissioner
shall require each applicant to file in the
Patent Office, in a sealed envelope duly
endorsed, within a time specified by him, an
affidavit of the record of the invention; the
affidavit shall declare
  * (_a_) the date at which the idea of the
invention described in the conflicting claims
was conceived ;
  * (_b_) the date upon which the first drawing
of the invention was made ;
  * (_c_) the date when and the mode in which
the first written or verbal disclosure of the
invention was made ; and
  * (_d_) the dates and nature of the successive
steps subsequently taken by the inventor to
develop and perfect the invention from
time to time up to the date of the filing of
the application for patent.
(6) No envelope containing any affidavit
mentioned in subsection (5) shall be opened,
nor shall the affidavits be permitted to be
inspected, unless there continues to be a
conflict between two or more applicants, in
which event all the envelopes shall be opened
at the same time by the Commissioner in the
presence of the Assistant Commissioner or an
examiner as witness thereto, and the date of
such opening shall be endorsed upon the
affidavits.
(7) The Commissioner, after examining the
facts stated in the affidavits, shall determine
which of the applicants is the prior inventor
to whom he will allow the claims in conflict
and shall forward to each applicant a copy of
his decision ; a copy of each affidavit shall be
transmitted to the several applicants.
(8) The claims in conflict shall be rejected
or allowed accordingly unless within a time
to be fixed by the Commissioner and notified
to the several applicants one of them
commences proceedings in the Exchequer
Court for the determination of their respective
rights, in which event the Commissioner shall
suspend further action on the applications in
conflict until in such action it has been
determined either
  * (_a_) that there is in fact no conflict between
the claims in question,
(6) that none of the applicants is entitled
to the issue of a patent containing the
claims in conflict as applied for by him,
  * (_c_) that a patent or patents, including
substitute claims approved by the Court,
may issue to one or more of the applicants,
or
  * (_d_) that one of the applicants is entitled as
against the others to the issue of a patent
including the claims in conflict as applied
for by him.
(9) The Commissioner shall, upon the
request of any of the parties to a proceeding
under this section, transmit to the Exchequer
Court the papers on file in the Patent Office
relating to the applications in conflict. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 45.

## GRANT OF PATENTS

**46.** Every patent granted under this Act
shall contain the title or name of the
invention, with a reference to the specification,
and shall, subject to the conditions in this Act
prescribed, grant to the patentee and his legal
representatives for the term therein men
tioned, from the granting of the patent, the
exclusive right, privilege and liberty of
making, constructing, using and vending to
others to be used the said invention, subject
to adjudication in respect thereof before any
court of competent jurisdiction. R.S., c. 203,
s. 46.

## FORM AND TERM OF PATENTS

**47.** Every patent granted under this Act
shall be issued under the signature of the
Commissioner and the seal of the Patent
the patent shall bear on its face the
date on which it is granted and issued and it
thereafter be prima facie valid and avail
the grantee and his legal representatives for
the term mentioned therein, which term shall
be as provided in and by sections 48 and 49.
R.S., c. 203, s. 48.

**48.** The term limited for the duration of
every patent of invention issued by the Patent
Office under this Act the application for
which patent is filed after the 1st day of
August 1935, shall be seventeen years from
the date on which the patent is granted and
issued. R.S., c. 203, s. 49(1).

**49.** The term limited for the duration of
every patent of invention issued by the Patent
Office under this Act the application for
which patent was filed prior to the 1st day of
August 1935, shall be eighteen years from the
date on which the patent is granted and
issued. R.S., c. 203, s. 49(2).

## REISSUE OF PATENTS
so. (l) Whenever any patent is deemed
defective or inoperative by reason of insuffi
cient description or specification, or by reason
of the patentee s claiming more or less than
he had a right to claim as new, but at the
same time it appears that the error arose from
inadvertence, accident or mistake, without
any fraudulent or deceptive intention, the
Commissioner may, upon the surrender of
such patent within four years from its date
and the payment of a further prescribed fee,
cause a new patent, in accordance with an
amended description and specification made
by such patentee, to be issued to him for the
same invention for the then unexpired term
for which the original patent was granted.
(2) Such surrender takes effect only upon
the issue of the new patent, and such new
patent and the amended description and
specification have the same effect in law, on
the trial of any action thereafter commenced
for any cause subsequently accruing, as if
such amended description and specification
had been originally filed in their corrected
form before the issue of the original patent,
but in so far as the claims of the original and
reissued patents are identical such surrender
does not affect any action pending at the
time of reissue nor abate any cause of action
then existing, and the reissued patent to the
extent that its claims are identical with the
original patent constitutes a continuation
thereof and has effect continuously from the
date of the original patent.
(3) The Commissioner may entertain sepa
rate applications and cause patents to be
issued for distinct and separate parts of the
invention patented, upon payment of the fee
for a reissue for each of such reissued patents.
R.S., c. 203, s. 50; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 4.

## DISCLAIMERS

**51.** (1) Whenever, by any mistake, accident
or inadvertence, and without any wilful intent
to defraud or mislead the public, a patentee
has
  * (_a_) made his specification too broad, claim
ing more than that of which he or the
person through whom he claims was the
first inventor, or
  * (_b_) in the specification, claimed that he or
the person through whom he claims was the
first inventor of any material or substantial
part of the invention patented of which he
was not the first inventor, and to which he
had no lawful right,
he may, on payment of the prescribed fee,
make disclaimer of such parts as he does not
claim to hold by virtue of the patent or the
assignment thereof.
(2) Such disclaimer shall be in writing, and
in duplicate, and shall be attested by one or
more witnesses; one copy thereof shall be
filed and recorded in the office of the
Commissioner ; the other shall be attached to
the patent and made a part thereof by
reference; the disclaimer shall thereafter be
deemed to be part of the original specification.
(3) No disclaimer affects any action pending
at the time when it is made, except as to
unreasonable neglect or delay in making it.
(4) In case of the death of the original
or of his having assigned the patent,
a like right to disclaim vests in his legal
representatives, any of whom may exercise it.
(5) The patent shall, after disclaimer as
provided in this section, be deemed to be
valid for such material and substantial part
of the invention, definitely distinguished
from other parts thereof claimed without
right, as is not disclaimed and is truly the
invention of the disclaimant.and thedisclaim-
ant is entitled to maintain an action or suit
in respect of such part accordingly. R.S., c.
203, s. 51 ; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 5.

## ASSIGNMENTS AND DEVOLUTIONS

**52.** (1) A patent may be granted to any
person to whom an inventor, entitled under
this Act to obtain a patent, has assigned in
writing or bequeathed by his last will his right
to obtain it ; in the absence of such assignment
or bequest the patent may be granted to the
personal representatives of the estate of a
deceased inventor.
(2) Where the applicant for a patent has,
after filing his application, assigned his right
to obtain the patent, or where he has either
before or after filing his application assigned
in writing the whole or part of his property
or interest in the invention, the assignee may
register such assignment in the Patent Office
in the manner from time to time prescribed
by the Commissioner, and no application for
a patent shall be withdrawn without the
consent in writing of every such registered
assignee.
(3) No such assignment shall be registered
in the Patent Office unless it is accompanied
by the affidavit of a subscribing witness or
established by other proof to the satisfaction
of the Commissioner that such assignment
has been signed and executed by the assignor.
R.S., c. 203, s. 52.

**53.** (1) Every patent issued for an inven
tion is assignable in law, either as to the
whole interest or as to any part thereof, by
an instrument in writing.
(2) Such assignment, and every grant and
of any exclusive right to make
use and to grant to others the right to
make and use the invention patented, within
and throughout Canada or any part thereof,
shall be registered in the Patent Office in the
manner from time to time prescribed by the
Commissioner.
(3) No such assignment, grant or conveyance
shall be registered in the Patent Office unless
it is accompanied by the affidavit of a
subscribing witness or established by other
proof to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
that such assignment, grant or conveyance
has been signed and executed by the assignor
and also by every other party thereto.
(4) Every assignment affecting a patent for
invention, whether it be referable to this
section or section 52, is void against any
subsequent assignee, unless such instrument
is registered as hereinbefore prescribed, before
the registration of the instrument under which
such subsequent assignee claims. R.S., c. 203,
s. 53.

**54.** The Exchequer Court has jurisdiction,
on the application of the Commissioner or of
any person interested, to order that any entry
in the records of the Patent Office relating to
the title to a patent be varied or expunged.
R.S., c. 203, s. 54.

## LEGAL PROCEEDINGS EN RESPECT OF PATENTS

**55.** (1) A patent is void if any material
allegation in the petition of the applicant in
respect of such patent is untrue, or if the
specification and drawings contain more or
less than is necessary for obtaining the end
for which they purport to be made, and such
omission or addition is wilfully made for the
purpose of misleading.
(2) Where it appears to the court that such
omission or addition was an involuntary error,
and it is proved that the patentee is entitled
to the remainder of his patent pro tanto, the
court shall render a judgment in accordance
with the facts, and shall determine as to costs,
and the patent shall be held valid for that
part of the invention described to which the
is so found to be entitled.
(3) Two office copies of such judgment shall
be furnished to the Patent Office by the
patentee ; one of them shall be registered and
remain of record in the office and the other
shall be attached to the patent and made a
part of it by a reference thereto. R.S., c. 203,
s. 55.

## INFRINGEMENT

**56.** (i) An action for the infringement of
i i i i f
a patent may be brought in that court of
record that, in the province wherein the
infringement is said to have occurred, has
jurisdiction, pecuniarily, to the amount of the
damages claimed and that, with relation to
the other courts of the province holds its
sittings nearest to the place of residence or of
business of the defendant ; such court shall
decide the case and determine as to costs, and
assumption of jurisdiction by the court is of
itself sufficient proof of jurisdiction.
(2) Nothing in this section impairs the
jurisdiction of the Exchequer Court under
section 21 of the Exchequer Court Act or
otherwise. R.S., c. 203, s. 56.

**57.** (1) Any person who infringes a patent
is liable to the patentee and to all persons
claiming under him for all damages sustained
by the patentee or by any such person, by
reason of such infringement.
(2) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the
patentee shall be or be made a party to any
action for the recovery of such damages. R.S.,
c. 203, s. 57.

**58.** Every person who, before the issuing
^ & P atent nas purchased, constructed or
acquired any invention for which a patent is
afterwards obtained under this Act, has the
right of using and vending to others the
specific article, machine, manufacture or
composition of matter patented and so
purchased, constructed or acquired before the
issue of the patent therefor, without being
liable to the patentee or his legal representa
tives for so doing; but the patent shall not,
as regards other persons, be held invalid by
reason of such purchase, construction or
acquisition or use of the invention by the
first mentioned, or by those to whom
has sold it, unless it was purchased,
constructed, acquired or used for a longer
period than two years before the application
for a patent therefor, in consequence whereof
the invention became public and available to
public use. R.S., c. 203, s. 58.

**59.** (1) In any action for infringement of a
patent the court, or any judge thereof, may,
on the application of the plaintiff or defendant
make such order as the court or judge sees fit,
  * (_a_) restraining or enjoining the opposite
party from further use, manufacture or sale
of the subject-matter of the patent, and for
his punishment in the event of disobedience
of such order, or
(6) for and respecting inspection or account,
and generally, respecting the proceedings in
the action.
(2) An appeal lies from any such order
under the same circumstances and to the same
court as from other judgments or orders of
the court in which the order is made. R.S., c.
203, s. 59.

**60.** When in any action or proceeding
respecting a patent that contains two or more
claims, one or more of such claims is or are
held to be valid, but another or others is or
are held to be invalid or void, effect shall be
given to the patent as if it contained only the
valid claim or claims. R.S., c. 203, s. 60.

**61.** The defendant, in any action for
infringement of a patent may plead as matter
of defence any fact or default which by this
Act or by law renders the patent void, and
the court shall take cognizance of such
pleading and of the relevant facts and decide
accordingly. R.S., c. 203, s. 61.

## IMPEACHMENT

**62.** (1) A patent or any claim in a patent
may be declared invalid or void by the
Court at the instance of the
Attorney General of Canada or at the instance
of any interested person.
(2) Where any person has reasonable cause
u , . , .
to believe that any process used or proposed
to be used or any article made, used or sold
or proposed to be made, used or sold by him
might be alleged by any patentee to constitute
an infringement of an exclusive property or
privilege granted thereby, he may bring an
action in the Exchequer Court against the
patentee for a declaration that such process
or article does not or would not constitute an
infringement of such exclusive property or
privilege.
(3) With the exception of the Attorney
General of Canada or the attorney general of
a province of Canada, the plaintiff in any
action under this section shall, before pro
ceeding therein, give security for the costs of
the patentee in such sum as the Court may
direct, but a defendant in any action for the
infringement of a patent is entitled to obtain
a declaration under this section without being
required to furnish any security. R.S., c. 203,
s. 62.

## PRIORITY OF INVENTIONS

**63.** (1) No patent or claim in a patent shall
be declared invalid or void on the ground
that, before the invention therein defined was
made by the inventor by whom the patent
was applied for, it had already been known
or used by some other person, unless it is
established either that
  * (_a_) before the date of the application for
the patent such other person had disclosed
or used the invention in such manner that
it had become available to the public, or
that
(6) such other person had, before the issue
of the patent, made an application for
patent in Canada upon which conflict
proceedings should have been directed, or
that
  * (_c_) such other person had at any time made
an application in Canada which, by virtue
of section 29, had the same force and effect
as if it had been filed in Canada before the
issue of the patent and upon which conflict
proceedings should properly have been
directed had it been so filed.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sec
tion 43, an application for a patent for an
invention for which a patent has already
issued under this Act shall be rejected unless
the applicant, within a time to be fixed by
the Commissioner, commences an action to
set aside the prior patent, so far as it covers
the invention in question, but if such action
is so commenced and diligently prosecuted,
the application shall not be deemed to have
been abandoned unless the applicant fails to
proceed upon it within a reasonable time after
the action has been finally disposed of.
(3) Where the application was filed within
one year from the date of the filing of the
application for the prior patent, the provisions
of subsection (1) do not apply to the
determination of the respective rights of the
parties to such action. R.S., c. 203, s. 63.

## JUDGMENTS

**64.** A certificate of the judgment voiding
in whole or in part any patent shall, at the
request of any person filing it to make it of
record in the Patent Office, be entered on the
margin of the enrolment of the patent in the
Patent Office, and the patent or such part
thereof as is so voided shall thereupon be and
be held to have been void and of no effect,
unless the judgment is reversed on appeal as
hereinafter provided. R.S., c. 203, s. 64.

**65.** Every judgment voiding in whole or in
part or refusing to void in whole or in part
any patent is subject to appeal to any court
having appellate jurisdiction in other cases
decided by the court by which such judgment
was rendered. R.S., c. 203, s. 65.
CONDITIONS

**66.** (1) The Commissioner may, at any
time, by notice in writing addressed to the
patentee of any patent specified by him, or
to his registered representative in Canada,
and to every person who has a registered
such persons in respect of such specified
to transmit and deliver to the
within sixty days from the date
of such notice, or within such further time as
the Commissioner may allow, a return stating
  * (_a_) whether the patented invention is being
worked on a commercial scale in Canada,
and the place where and the name and
address of the person by whom the patented
invention is being so worked, and
  * (_b_) the reasons, if any, why such patented
invention is not being worked on a
commercial scale in Canada.
(2) The failure of the patentee or his
registered representative in Canada or that of
any such person having a registered interest
to comply with the terms of the notice
mentioned in subsection (1) shall be deemed
to be an admission on the part of the patentee
or the person, as the case may be, so failing,
that the patented invention is not being
worked on a commercial scale in Canada.
R.S., c. 203, s. 66.

**67.** (1) The Attorney General of Canada
or any person interested may at any time
after the expiration of three years from the
date of the grant of a patent apply to the
Commissioner alleging in the case of that
patent that there has been an abuse of the
exclusive rights thereunder and asking for
relief under this Act.
(2) The exclusive rights under a patent
shall be deemed to have been abused in any
of the following circumstances :
  * (_a_) if the patented invention (being one
capable of being worked within Canada) is
not being worked within Canada on a
commercial scale, and no satisfactory reason
can be given for such non-working, but if
an application is presented to the Commis
sioner on this ground, and the Commissioner
is of opinion that the time that has elapsed
since the grant of the patent has by reason
of the nature of the invention or for any
other cause been insufficient to enable the
invention to be worked within Canada on
a commercial scale, the Commissioner may
make an order adjourning the application
for such period as will in his opinion be
sufficient for that purpose ;
by persons directly or indirectly purchasing
from him, or by other persons against whom
the patentee is not taking or has not taken
any proceedings for infringement ;
  * (_c_) if the demand for the patented article
in Canada is not being met to an adequate
extent and on reasonable terms ;
  * (_d_) if, by reason of the refusal of the
patentee to grant a licence or licences upon
reasonable terms, the trade or industry of
Canada or the trade of any person or class
of persons trading in Canada, or the
establishment of any new trade or industry
in Canada, is prejudiced, and it is in the
public interest that a licence or licences
should be granted ;
  * (_e_) if any trade or industry in Canada, or
any person or class of persons engaged
therein, is unfairly prejudiced by the
conditions attached by the patentee, wheth
er before or after the passing of this Act, to
the purchase, hire, licence, or use of the
patented article, or to the using or working
of the patented process ;
(/) if it is shown that the existence of the
patent, being a patent for an invention
relating to a process involving the use of
materials not protected by the patent or for
an invention relating to a substance pro
duced by such a process, has been utilized
by the patentee so as unfairly to prejudice
in Canada the manufacture, use or sale of
any such materials.
(3) For the purpose of determining whether
there has been any abuse of the exclusive
under a patent, it shall be taken, in
to every paragraph of subsection (2),
that patents for new inventions are granted
only to encourage invention but to secure
new inventions shall so far as possible be

**68.** On being satisfied that a case of abuse
of the exclusive rights under a patent has
been established, the Commissioner may
exercise any of the following powers as he
may deem expedient in the circumstances :
  * (_a_) he may order the grant to the applicant
of a licence on such terms as the Commis
sioner may think expedient, including a
term precluding the licensee from importing
into Canada any goods the importation of
which, if made by persons other than the
patentee or persons claiming under him
would be an infringement of the patent,
and in such case the patentee and all
licensees for the time being shall be deemed
to have mutually covenanted against such
importation; a licensee under this para
graph is entitled to call upon the patentee
to take proceedings to prevent infringement
of the patent, and if the patentee refuses,
or neglects to do so within two months after
being so called upon, the licensee may
institute proceedings for infringement in
his own name as though he were the
patentee, making the patentee a defendant ;
a patentee so added as defendant is not
liable for any costs unless he enters an
appearance and takes part in the proceed
ings; service on the patentee may be
effected by leaving the writ at his address
or at the address of his representative for
service as appearing in the records of the
Patent Office; in settling the terms of a
licence under this paragraph the Commis
sioner shall be guided as far as may be by
the following considerations :
  * (_i_) he shall, on the one hand, endeavour
to secure the widest possible user of the
invention in Canada consistent with the
patentee deriving a reasonable advantage
from his patent rights,
  * (_ii_) he shall, on the other hand, endeavour
to secure to the patentee the maximum
advantage consistent with the invention
royalties or other payments accruing to
the patentee under any licence previously
granted, and in considering the question
of equality of advantage, the Commis
sioner shall take into account any work
done or outlay incurred by any previous
licensee with a view to testing the
commercial value of the invention or to
securing the working thereof on a com
mercial scale in Canada ;
(6) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
invention is not being worked on a
commercial scale within Canada, and is
such that it cannot be so worked without
the expenditure of capital for the raising of
which it will be necessary to rely on the
exclusive rights under the patent, he may,
unless the patentee or those claiming under
him will undertake to find such capital,
order the grant to the applicant, or any
other person, or to the applicant and any
other person or persons jointly, if able and
willing to provide such capital, of an
exclusive licence on such terms as the
Commissioner may think just, but subject
as hereafter in this Act provided ;
  * (_c_) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
exclusive rights have been abused in the
circumstances specified in paragraph
67(2)(/), he may order the grant of licences
to the applicant and to such of his customers,
and containing such terms, as the Commis
sioner may think expedient ;
  * (_d_) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
objects of this section and section 67 cannot
be attained by the exercise of any of the
foregoing powers, he shall order the patent
to be revoked, either forthwith or after such
reasonable interval as may be specified in
the order, unless in the meantime such
conditions as may be prescribed in the order
with a view to attaining the objects of this
section and section 67 are fulfilled, and the
Commissioner may, on reasonable cause
shown in any case, by subsequent order
extend the interval so specified; but the
Commissioner shall make no order for
revocation which is at variance with any
treaty, convention, arrangement, or engage
ment with any other country to which
Canada is a party ;
  * (_e_) if the Commissioner is of opinion that
the objects of this section and section 67
be best attained by making no order
under the above provisions of this section,
he may make an order refusing the
application and dispose of any question as
to costs thereon as he thinks just. R.S., c.
203, s. 68.

**69.** (1) In settling the terms of any such
exclusive licence as is provided in paragraph
68(6), due regard shall be had to the risks
undertaken by the licensee in providing the
capital and working the invention, but, subject
thereto, the licence shall be so framed as
  * (_o_) to secure to the patentee the maximum
royalty compatible with the licensee work
ing the invention within Canada on a
commercial scale and at a reasonable profit,
and
(6) to guarantee to the patentee a minimum
yearly sum by way of royalty, if and so far
as it is reasonable so to do, having regard
to the capital requisite for the proper
working of the invention and all the
circumstances of the case ;
and, in addition to any other powers expressed
in the licence or order, the licence and the
order granting the licence shall be made
revocable at the discretion of the Commis
sioner if the licensee fails to expend the
amount specified in the licence as being the
amount that he is able and willing to provide
for the purpose of working the invention on
a commercial scale within Canada, or if he
fails so to work the invention within the time
specified in the order.
(2) In deciding to whom such an exclusive
licence is to be granted the commissioner
shall, unless good reason is shown to the
contrary, prefer an existing licensee to a
person having no registered interest in the
patent.
(3) The order granting an exclusive licence
under section 68 operates to take away from
the patentee any right that he may have as
patentee to work or use the invention and to
revoke all existing licences, unless otherwise
provided in the order, but, on granting an
exclusive licence, the Commissioner may, if
he thinks it fair and equitable, make it a
condition that the licensee shall give proper
compensation to be fixed by the Commissioner
for any money or labour expended by the
patentee or any existing licensee in developing
or exploiting the invention. R.S., c. 203, s. 69.

**70.** (1) Every application presented to the
Commissioner under section 67 or 68 shall set
out fully the nature of the applicant s interest
and the facts upon which the applicant bases
his case and the relief which he seeks; the
application shall be accompanied by statutory
declarations verifying the applicant s interest
and the facts set out in the application.
(2) The Commissioner shall consider the
matters alleged in the application and
declarations, and, if satisfied that the appli
cant has a bona fide interest and that a prima
facie case for relief has been made out, he
shall direct the applicant to serve copies of
the application and declarations upon the
patentee or his representative for service and
upon any other persons appearing from the
records of the Patent Office to be interested
in the patent, and the applicant shall advertise
the application in the Canada Gazette and
the Canadian Patent Office Record. R.S., c.
203, s. 70.

**71.** (1) If the patentee or any person is
desirous of opposing the granting of any relief
under sections 67 to 72, he shall, within such
time as may be prescribed or within such
extended time as the Commissioner may on
application further allow, deliver to the
Commissioner a counter statement verified
by a statutory declaration fully setting out
the grounds on which the application is to be
opposed.
(2) The Commissioner shall consider the
statement and declarations in support
and may thereupon dismiss the
if satisfied that the allegations in
the application have been adequately
answered, unless any of the parties demands
a hearing or unless the Commissioner himself
appoints a hearing; in any case the Commis
sioner may require the attendance before him
of any of the declarants to be cross-examined
or further examined upon matters relevant to
the issues raised in the application and
counter statement, and he may, subject to
due precautions against disclosure of infor
mation to rivals in trade, require the produc
tion before him of books and documents
relating to the matter in issue.
(3) In any case where the Commissioner
does not dismiss an application as hereinbefore
provided, and
  * (_a_) if the parties interested consent, or
(6) if the proceedings require any prolonged
examination of documents or any scientific
or local investigation that cannot in the
opinion of the Commissioner conveniently
be made before him,
the Commissioner with the approval in writing
of the Minister may order the whole proceed
ings or any issue of fact arising thereunder to
be referred to the Exchequer Court, which has
jurisdiction in the premises, and where the
whole proceedings are so referred, the judg
ment, decision or order of the Court is final;
and where a question or issue of fact is so
referred, the Court shall report its findings to
the Commissioner. R.S., c. 203, s. 71.

**72.** (1) Any order for the grant of a licence
under this Act, without prejudice to any other
method of enforcement, operates as if it were
embodied in a deed granting a licence
executed by the patentee and all other
necessary parties.
(2) For the purposes of sections 67 to 72,
the expression "patented article" includes
articles made by a patented process. R.S., c.
203, s. 72.

**73.** All orders and decisions of the Com
missioner under sections 67 to 72 are subject
to appeal to the Exchequer Court, and on
any such appeal the Attorney General of
or such counsel as he may appoint is
entitled to appear and be heard. R.S., c. 203,

**73.**

## CAVEATS

**74.** (1) Any intending applicant for a
patent who has not yet perfected his invention
and is in fear of being despoiled of his idea,
may file in the Patent Office a document
setting forth a description of his invention so
far as it has proceeded, with or without plans,
at his own will; and the Commissioner, on
payment of the prescribed fee shall cause that
document, which shall be called a "caveat",
to be preserved in secrecy with the exception
that he shall deliver copies thereof whenever
required by the applicant or by any judicial
tribunal ; the secrecy of the document ceases
when the applicant obtains a patent for his
invention.
(2) Where application is made by any other
person for a patent for any invention with
which a caveat may in any respect interfere,
the Commissioner shall forthwith give notice
of such application by mail to the person who
has filed the caveat, and such person shall,
within three months after the date of mailing
the notice, if he wishes to avail himself of the
caveat, file his petition and take the other
steps necessary on an application for a patent,
and if, in the opinion of the Commissioner,
the applications are conflicting, like proceed
ings may be had in all respects as are provided
by this Act in the case of conflicting
applications.
(3) Unless the person filing a caveat makes
application within one year from such filing
the Commissioner is relieved from the obliga
tion of giving notice and the caveat thereafter
remains as a simple matter of proof as to
novelty or priority of invention, if required.
R.S., c. 203, s. 74.

## FORFEITURE AND RESTORATION OF
APPLICATIONS

**75.** (1) Where the prescribed fees stated to
(2) A forfeited application may be restored
and a patent granted thereon on application
to the Commissioner within six months from
the incurrence of the forfeiture, on payment
with the application for restoration, in
addition to the fees payable on the grant of
the patent, of a further prescribed fee.
(3) A restored application is subject to
amendment and re-examination. 1953-54, c.
19, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c. 55, s. 6.

## NEWFOUNDLAND PATENTS

**76.** (1) Patents issued under the laws of
Newfoundland prior to the 1st day of April
1949 shall be deemed to have been issued
under the laws of Canada, as of the date and
for the term thereof.
(2) In the event of conflict between patents
issued under the laws of Newfoundland prior
to the 1st day of April 1949, and patents
issued under the laws of Canada prior to that
date
  * (_a_) the patents issued under the laws of
Newfoundland shall have the same force
and effect in the Province of Newfoundland
as if Newfoundland had not become part of
Canada, and all rights and privileges
acquired under or by virtue thereof may
continue to be exercised or enjoyed in the
Province of Newfoundland as if Newfound
land had not become part of Canada ; and
  * (_b_) the patents issued under the laws of
Canada shall have the same force and effect
in any part of Canada other than the
Province of Newfoundland as if Newfound
land had not become part of Canada, and
all rights and privileges acquired under or
by virtue thereof may continue to be
exercised or enjoyed in any part of Canada
other than the Province of Newfoundland
as if Newfoundland had not become part of
Canada.
(3) The laws of Newfoundland as they
existed immediately prior to the expiration
of the 31st day of March 1949 shall continue
to apply in respect of applications for patents
time, and any patents issued upon such
applications shall, for the purposes of this
be deemed to have been issued under
laws of Newfoundland prior to the 1st
day of April 1949; and patents issued under
the laws of Canada upon applications pending
immediately prior to the expiration of the
said 31st day of March shall, for the purposes
of this section, be deemed to have been issued
under the laws of Canada prior to the said
1st day of April.
(4) No claims for infringement of a patent
issued in Canada prior to the 1st day of April
1949 shall be entertained by any court against
any person for anything done in Newfound
land prior to that date in respect of the
invention protected by such patent, and no
claims for infringement of a patent issued in
Newfoundland prior to that date shall be
entertained by any court against any person
for anything done in Canada prior to that
date in respect of the invention protected by
such patent. R.S., c. 203, s. 79.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**77.** Any patentee under this Act or any
one claiming under him who, in contravention
of any requirement of section 24, sells or
offers for sale any articles patented under this
Act, is liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars, and in default of the
payment of such fine, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two months. R.S., c. 203,
s. 80.

**78.** Every person who
  * (_a_) without the consent of the patentee,
writes, paints, prints, moulds, casts, carves,
engraves, stamps or otherwise marks upon
anything made or sold by him, and for the
sole making or selling of which he is not
the patentee, the name or any imitation of
the name of any patentee for the sole
making or selling of such thing ;
  * (_b_) without the consent of the patentee,
writes, paints, prints, moulds, casts, carves,
engraves, stamps or otherwise marks upon
anything not purchased from the patentee,
the words "Patent", "Letters Patent",
"Queen s or King s Patent", "Patented", or
any word or words of like import, with the
intent of counterfeiting or imitating the
stamp, mark or device of the patentee, or
of deceiving the public and inducing them
to believe that the thing in question was
made or sold by or with the consent of the
patentee ; or
  * (_c_) with intent to deceive the public offers
for sale as patented in Canada any article
not patented in Canada ;
is guilty of an indictable offence, and liable
to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars,
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months, or to both. R.S., c. 203, s. 81.

**79.** Every person who in relation to the
/ , i 11 . i
purposes of this Act and knowing it to be
false
  * (_a_) makes any false representation ;
  * (_b_) makes or causes to be made any false
entry in any register or book ;
  * (_c_) makes or causes to be made any false
document or alters the form of a copy of
any document ; or
  * (_d_) produces or tenders any document
containing false information ;
is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable
upon conviction to a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six months, or to both. R.S., c.
203, s. 82.

**80.** Every patent issued before, on or after
the 1st day of August 1935 shall be deemed
to have been properly issued if all the
conditions of the issue of a valid patent that
may have been or shall be in force, either at
the date of the application therefor or at the
date of the issue thereof, have been satisfied ;
but any provisions in force from time to time
relating to the continued validity of patents
after issue apply to all patents whenever
granted. R.S., c. 203, s. 83.

**81.** (1) Where any time limit or period of
limitation specified under or pursuant to this
Act expires upon a day when the Patent
Office is closed for business, such time limit
or period of limitation shall be deemed to be
extended to the next day when the Patent
Office is open for business.
business on Saturdays and holidays and on
such other days as the Minister by order
declares that it shall be closed for business.
(3) Every order made by the Minister under
subsection (2) shall be published in the
Canadian Patent Office Record as soon as
possible after the making thereof. 1968-69, c.
49, s. 2.
