
# CHAPTER P-40
An Act respecting the publication of the
Statutes

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Publication
of Statutes Act. R.S., c. 230, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the member
of the Queen s Privy Council for Canada in
charge for the time being of the Department
of Supply and Services. R.S., c. 230, s. 2 ; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 105.

## THE CLERK OF THE PARLIAMENTS

**3.** All the original Acts passed by the
Legislatures of the former Provinces of Upper
or Lower Canada, or of the former Province
of Canada, transferred to and deposited of
record in the office of the Clerk of the Senate,
and also all original Acts of the Parliament
of Canada assented to by the Governor
General, shall be and continue to remain of
record in the custody of the Clerk of the
Senate of Canada, who shall be known and
designated as the Clerk of the Parliaments.
R.S., c. 230, s. 3.

**4.** The Clerk of the Parliaments shall have
a seal of office, and shall affix the seal to
certified copies of all Acts intended for the
Registrar General of Canada, or required to
be produced before courts of justice, either
or outside Canada, and in any other
in which the Clerk of the Parliaments
deems it expedient. R.S., c. 230, s. 4.

**5.** All copies of the Acts certified by the
Clerk of the Parliaments pursuant to section
4 shall be held to be duplicate originals and
to be evidence of those Acts and of their
contents as if printed under the authority of
Parliament by the Queen s Printer. R.S., c.
230, s. 5.

**6.** As soon as practicable after the proroga
tion of every session of Parliament, the Clerk
of the Parliaments shall obtain from the
Queen s Printer bound copies of the Statutes
of Canada passed during that session of
Parliament, and shall deliver one copy of the
said Acts in the English and French languages,
duly certified, to the Registrar General of
Canada. R.S., c. 230, s. 6.

**7.** The Clerk of the Parliaments shall also
furnish certified copies of any of the Acts
mentioned in section 3 to any department of
the public service of Canada or of any
province or territory within Canada or to any
person applying therefor, and upon every
such certified copy, shall, before delivering it,
receive a fee of two dollars, in addition to the
cost of the printed copy, if a printed copy is
furnished, or in addition to a fee of ten cents
for every hundred words in such copy, if the
copy furnished is not printed. R.S., c. 230, s.

**7.**

**8.** The Clerk of the Parliaments shall insert
at the foot of every copy of an Act required
to be certified pursuant to section 7, a written
certificate, duly signed and authenticated by
him, to the effect that it is a true copy of the
Act passed by the Parliament of Canada, or
by the Legislature of the former Province of
Canada, or of the former Province of Upper
Canada or Lower Canada, as the case may
be, in the session thereof held in the
year of Her Majesty s reign, and assented to
in Her Majesty s name, by the Governor
General, or, as the case may be, on the
day of R.S., c. 230, s. 8.

## PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE

## STATUTES

**9.** The Clerk of the Parliaments shall
furnish the Queen s Printer with a certified
copy of every Act of the Parliament of
Canada as soon as it has received Royal
Assent. R.S., c. 230, s. 9.

**10.** (1) The Acts of the Parliament of
Canada shall be printed in two separate Parts,
the first of which shall contain such of the
said Acts and such orders in council, procla
mations and other documents, and such Acts
of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, as
the Governor in Council deems to be of a
public and general nature or interest in
Canada and directs to be inserted, and the
second Part shall contain the remaining Acts
of the session, and shall be printed after the
first Part.
(2) Copies of the volume or volumes of the
Acts referred to in subsection (1) shall be
printed by the Queen s Printer, who shall, as
soon after the close of each session as
practicable, deliver or send by post or
otherwise the proper number of copies to
  * (_a_) the members of the two Houses of
Parliament, respectively, who shall each be
entitled to receive such number of copies as
is, from time to time, directed by joint
resolution of the said Houses, or, in default
of such resolution, as is directed by the
Governor in Council, and
  * (_b_) such public departments, administrative
bodies and officers throughout Canada as
the Governor in Council, from time to time,
directs. R.S., c. 230, s. 10; 1968-69, c. 2, s. 1.

**11.** The Statutes shall be printed in the
English and French languages in such form,
on such paper and in such type and shall be
bound in such manner as the Governor in
Council may prescribe by regulation. 1968-69,
c. 2, s. 2.

**12.** Whenever an}- Bill receives the Royal
Assent during and before the termination of
any session of Parliament, the Queen s Printer
shall, if so directed by the Minister, cause
distribution of the Act to be made, to the
same persons and in like manner and numbers
as provided in section 10 with respect to the
Acts of any session ; or such Acts may, by
order of the Governor in Council, be published
in the Canada Gazette, and printed afterwards
in the proper Part of the Statutes. R.S., c.
s. 12.

**13.** The Clerk of the Privy Council shall,
fifteen days after the close of each
of Parliament, transmit to the Queen s
Printer a list of the public departments,
administrative bodies and officers to whom
the Statutes of the session are by section 10
required to be transmitted, and shall also, as
occasion requires, furnish the Queen s Printer
with copies of all orders in council made
under this Act. R.S., c. 230, s. 13.

**14.** The Queen s Printer shall keep a
complete record of the number of copies of
the Acts of each session that have been
printed, and of their disposition, and the
record shall form a part of the annual report
of the Department of Supply and Services.
R.S., c. 230, s. 14; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

## PAYMENT FOR PRINTING OF PRIVATE BILLS

**15.** Any person desiring to obtain a Bill of
a private or personal character shall pay to
the Clerk of the House in which such proposed
legislation is first introduced the charges
prescribed by the rules of the House. R.S., c.
230, s. 15.
COST OF PRINTING, BINDING AND

## DISTRIBUTING STATUTES

**16.** All expenditures incurred in printing,
binding and distributing the Statutes shall be
defrayed from an appropriation voted by
Parliament for that purpose. R.S., c. 230, s.

**16.**
