
# CHAPTER P-5
An Act respecting pawnbrokers

## SHORT TITLE
\ t This Act may be cited as the Pawnbrokers
Act. R.S., c. 204, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "pawnbroker" means any
person who lawfully exercises the trade of
receiving or taking, by way of pawn, pledge
or exchange, any goods for the repayment of
money lent thereon. R.S., c. 204, s. 2.

## RATES AND CONDITIONS

**3.** Every pawnbroker may take the follow
ing rates above the principal sum advanced,
before he is obliged to redeliver the goods
pawned, that is to say, for every pledge upon
which there has been lent a sum not exceeding
fifty cents, the sum of one cent for any time
not exceeding one month, and the same for
every month afterwards, including the current
month in which the pledge is redeemed,
although such month has not expired ; and so
on progressively and in the same proportion
for every sum of fifty cents up to twenty
dollars. R.S., c. 204, s. 3.

**4.** When the sum advanced exceeds twenty
dollars, the pawnbroker may take upon all
beyond that amount the rate of five cents for
four dollars by the month, and so on in
proportion for any fractional sum. R.S., c.
s. 4.

**5.** Such sums respectively shall be in lieu
of and taken as a full satisfaction for all
interest due and charges for warehouse room.
R.S., c. 204, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Except as to amounts advanced on
goods not exceeding twenty dollars herein
before provided for, the person entitled to
redeem, on application during any current
and unexpired month has the right of
redemption on payment of the full rate for
each expired month and in addition
  * (_a_) for any portion of any current and
unexpired month not exceeding fourteen
days, a one-half month rate ; and
  * (_b_) for any portion of any current and
unexpired month exceeding fourteen days,
a full month rate.
(2) The person entitled may redeem goods
upon which any sum not exceeding twenty
dollars has been advanced on payment of the
amount specially provided by this Act as a
rate for sums advanced up to twenty dollars.
R.S., c. 204, s. 6.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**7.** Every pawnbroker who, in any case,
stipulates for or takes a higher rate than that
herein prescribed, is, on summary conviction,
liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty dollars.
R.S., c. 204, s. 7.
g. Every person who counterfeits, forges or
alters , . any note or memorandum i given i by a
pawnbroker for goods pledged, or causes or
procures the same to be done, or utters, vends
or sells such note or memorandum, knowing
the same to be counterfeited, forged or altered,
with intent to defraud any person, is liable,
on summary conviction, to imprisonment for
any term not exceeding three months. R.S., c.
204, s. 8.

**9.** If any note or memorandum aforesaid
is uttered, shown or offered to any person,
and such person has reason to suspect that
the same has been forged, he may seize the
person offering the same, and deliver him to
a peace officer or constable, who shall convey
him before a justice of the peace to be dealt
according to law. R.S., c. 204, s. 9.

**10.** (1) Any pawnbroker, who has any
to suspect any person offering to pawn,
pledge, exchange, sell or redeem any goods in
which such person has no right or colour of
title by law to pawn, pledge, exchange, sell or
redeem, may seize and detain such person
and goods and shall deliver immediately such
person and goods into the custody of a peace
officer or constable.
(2) The peace officer or constable shall
convey, as soon as possible, such person and
goods before a justice of the peace of the
district or county. R.S., c. 204, s. 10.

**11.** Where such justice of the peace, upon
examination and inquiry, has cause to suspect
that such goods have been stolen or illegally
or clandestinely obtained, or that the person
offering to redeem them has not any pretence
or colour of right to do so, he shall commit
the offender into safe custody for such
reasonable time as is necessary for obtaining
proper information, in order to be further
examined; and if, upon either examination,
it appears to the satisfaction of the justice
that such goods were stolen or illegally or
clandestinely obtained, or that the person
offering to redeem them had not any pretence
or colour of right to do so, he shall, unless the
commitment is authorized by some other law,
commit the offender to the common gaol of
the district or county where the offence was
committed, for any term not exceeding three
months. R.S., c. 204, s. 11.
