
# CHAPTER P-6
An Act respecting penitentiaries

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Penitentiary
Act. 1960-61, c. 53,s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
Penitentiaries ;
"inmate" means a person who, having been
sentenced or committed to penitentiary, has
been received and accepted at a penitentiary
pursuant to the sentence or committal and
has not been lawfully discharged therefrom ;
"Minister" means the Solicitor General of
Canada ;
"penitentiary" means an institution or facility
of any description, including all lands
connected therewith, that is operated by
the Sen-ice for the custody, treatment or
training of persons sentenced or committed
to penitentiary;
"Service" means the Canadian Penitentiary
Sen-ice referred to in section 3.
(2) For the purposes of any law of Canada
relating to escapes and rescues of prisoners, a
penitentiary shall be deemed to include any
place at or in which an inmate, prior to his
lawful discharge from custody, is required by
this Act or the regulations, or by an officer of
the Service, to be or remain.
(3) In any proceedings before a court in
Canada in which a question arises concerning
the location or dimension of lands alleged to
any evidence to the contrary is proof that the
lands as located or described in the certificate
constitute a penitentiary. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 2;
1966-67, c. 25,s.37.

## PENITENTIARY SERVICE

**3.** There shall continue to be a penitentiary
service in and for Canada which shall be
known as the Canadian Penitentiary Service.
1960-61, c. 53, s. 3.

## COMMISSIONER

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint and fix the salary of an officer to be
known as the Commissioner of Penitentiaries
who, under the direction of the Minister, has
the control and management of the Service
and all matters connected therewith.
(2) The Governor in Council may appoint
and fix the salary of an officer to be known
as the Deputy Commissioner of Penitentiaries
who, in the event that the Commissioner is
absent or unable to act or the office of
Commissioner is vacant, has for the time
being the control and management of the
Service and all matters connected therewith
and who, for such purposes, may exercise all
the powers of the Commissioner under this or
any other Act. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 4. [See 1960, c.
48, Sch. C vote 523 and SOR/69-459.]

## OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

**5.** (1) The Minister may appoint officers
of the Service to be known as Directors of
Divisions and Regional Directors.
(2) The maximum number of officers in
each class and their salaries shall be as
prescribed by the Treasury Board. 1960-61, c.
53, s. 5. [See SOR/69-459.]

**6.** (1) The Commissioner, under the direc
tion of the Minister, may appoint such other
officers and employees of the Service as are
for the administration of this Act,
in respect of such appointments, the
provided in the Public Service
Employment Act in respect of military service
apply.
(2) The ranks and grades of officers and
employees appointed by the Commissioner
under subsection (1), the maximum number
of persons to be appointed to each such rank
and grade and their salaries shall be as
prescribed by the Treasury Board. 1960-61, c.
53, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Every officer and employee of the
Service shall, before entering upon the duties
of his office, take the oath of allegiance and,
in the case of an officer, an oath of office in
the following form :
I, A.B., solemnly swear that I will faithfully, diligently
and impartially execute and perform the duties required
of me as an officer of the Canadian Penitentiary Service
and will well and truly obey and perform all lawful orders
that I receive as such, without fear, favour or affection of
or toward any person. So help me God.
(2) The oath prescribed by subsection (1)
and any other oath or declaration that may
be necessary or required may be taken by the
Commissioner before any judge, magistrate
or justice of the peace having jurisdiction in
any part of Canada, and by any other officer
of the Service before the Commissioner or
any officer in charge of an institution or any
person having authority to administer oaths
or affidavits. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 7.

**8.** (1) Officers and employees of the Service
hold office during pleasure.
(2) The Commissioner may, where he
considers it in the interests of the Service,
suspend from duty any officer or employee
of the Service.
(3) The officer in charge of a penitentiary
may, where he considers it in the interests of
the Service, suspend from duty any officer or
employee of the Service who is under his
jurisdiction. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 8.

**9.** In the event that the Commissioner and
Deputy Commissioner are absent or unable
to act or the offices are vacant the senior
Divisional Head at the headquarters of the
Service has, for the time being, the control
Act. 1960-61 ,c. 53,8.9.

**10.** Every officer of the Service is a peace
officer in every part of Canada and has all
the powers, authority, protection and privi
leges that a peace officer has by law. 1960-61,
c. 53, s. 11.

## HEADQUARTERS

**11.** (1) The headquarters of the Service
and the offices of the Commissioner shall be
at Ottawa.
(2) The Commissioner may establish region
al headquarters of the Service and fix the
location of regional offices. 1960-61, c. 53, s.

**12.**
INVESTIGATIONS

**12.** The Commissioner may, from time to
time, appoint a person to investigate and
report upon any matter affecting the operation
of the Service and, for that purpose, the
person so appointed has all of the powers of
a commissioner appointed under Part II of
the Inquiries Act, and section 10 of that Act
applies, mutatis mutandis, in respect of
investigations carried on under the authority
of this section. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 13.

## COMMITTAL, RECEPTION AND TRANSFER OF

## INMATES

**13.** (1) Where a person is sentenced or
committed to imprisonment for life, for an
indeterminate period or for any term that is
required to be served in a penitentiary, it is
sufficient compliance with the law, notwith
standing anything in the Criminal Code, if
the warrant of committal states that the
person was sentenced or committed to impris
onment in penitentiary for life, for an
indeterminate period or for the term in
question, as the case may be, without stating
the name of any penitentiary to which the
person is sentenced or committed.
(2) The Commissioner may make rules
naming the penitentiaries in which, in the
first instance, persons sentenced or committed
in any part of Canada to penitentiary shall
be received.
(3) Where a person has been sentenced or
committed to penitentiary, the Commissioner
or any officer directed by the Commissioner
may, by warrant under his hand, direct that
the person shall be committed or transferred
to any penitentiary in Canada, whether or
not that person has been received in the
relevant penitentiary named in rules made
under subsection (2).
(4) Where a person has been sentenced or
committed to penitentiary, the officer in
charge of the regional headquarters for the
region in which the person is confined may,
by warrant under his hand, direct the transfer
of that person to any other penitentiary
within the region.
(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
every person who is sentenced by any court
in Newfoundland to imprisonment for life, or
for a term of years, not less than two, shall be
sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary
operated by the Province of Newfoundland
at the city of St. John s for the confinement
of prisoners, and shall be subject to the
statutes, rules, regulations and other laws
pertaining to the management and control of
the said penitentiary.
(6) Subject to the approval of the Governor
in Council, the Solicitor General of Canada
may enter into an agreement with the
Province of Newfoundland providing for the
payment to the Province of the cost of
maintaining the persons who are or have been
sentenced or committed to penitentiary.
(7) A person shall be deemed to be in lawful
custody anywhere in Canada if,
  * (_a_) having been sentenced or committed to
penitentiary, he is in the custody of a
person acting under the authority of the
court that sentenced or committed him, or
  * (_b_) having been directed to be transferred
to another penitentiary, he is in the custody
of a person acting under the authority of
the officer who directed the transfer. 1960-
61, c. 53, s. 14; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

## YUKON TERRITORY AND NORTHWEST

## TERRITORIES

**14.** (1) The Minister may, subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council, arrange
with the lieutenant governor of any province
for the confinement, in the prisons or
reformatories of that province, of persons
convicted in the Yukon Territory or the
Northwest Territories and for the compensa
tion to be paid by the Government of Canada
to the government of the province in respect
of persons so confined.
(2) Where an arrangement has been made
under subsection (1), the Commissioner or any
officer directed by him may, by warrant under
his hand, direct the transfer of a person
convicted in the Yukon Territory or the
Northwest Territories to a prison or reforma
tory in a province in respect of which the
arrangement applies, and the person shall,
while he is being escorted to that prison, be
deemed to be in lawful custody.
(3) A person who is confined in a prison or
reformatory outside the Yukon Territory or
the Northwest Territories pursuant to an
arrangement made under subsection (1) shall,
during the term of his sentence or period of
committal, be deemed to be lawfully confined.
1960-61,0.63,8. 15.

## SENTENCES OF LESS THAN TWO YEARS

**15.** (i) The Minister, with the general or
special approval of the Governor in Council,
may on behalf of the Government of Canada
enter into an agreement with the government
of any province for the confinement in
penitentiaries or any other institution under
the direction or supervision of the Service, of
persons sentenced or committed under the
criminal law of Canada to imprisonment for
more than six months but less than two years,
but any such agreement shall include provi
sions whereby such persons shall be confined
at the expense of the provincial government
(2) A person who is confined in a peniten
or other institution pursuant to an
made under subsection (1) shall,
the term of his sentence or period of
committal, be deemed to be lawfully confined.
1960-61 ,c. 53,s. 16.

## RECEPTION OF INMATES

**16.** (1) A person who has been sentenced
or committed to penitentiary shall not be
received in a penitentiary until after the
expiration of the time limited by law for an
appeal, and thereupon he may be received in
a penitentiary whether or not he has entered
an appeal ; but any such person may, before
the expiration of the time limited by law for
an appeal, give written notice to the court
that sentenced or committed him that he
elects not to appeal or abandons his appeal,
as the case may be, and thereupon the time
limited for appeal shall be deemed to have
expired.
(2) Where the Commissioner or an officer
of the Service designated by him is satisfied
that attendance of an inmate is required away
from the penitentiary into which he has been
received, for the purpose of the preparation
or presentation of an appeal from his
conviction or sentence, the Commissioner or
the officer designated by him may issue a
written direction to the officer in charge of
the penitentiary into which the inmate has
been received directing him for that purpose
to transfer the inmate to a prison, common
gaol or other place, not being a penitentiary,
in which persons who are charged with or
convicted of offences are usually kept in
custody, and the officer shall comply with
such direction. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 105.

**17.** Subject to any relevant agreement that
may be made under section 19, the officer in
charge of a penitentiary is not required to
accept a person into custody under a warrant
of committal unless there is, in relation to
that person, a certificate of a duly qualified
medical practitioner which certifies that the
person is free from dangerous, contagious or
infectious disease. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 18.

**18.** (1) A person who by reason of subsec-
tion 16(1) is not received in a penitentiary or
by reason of section 17 is not accepted
into custody shall be confined in any prison,
common gaol or other place, not being a
penitentiary, in which persons who are charged
with or convicted of offences are usually kept
in custody.
(2) The keeper of any prison, common gaol
or other place referred to in subsection 16(2)
or in subsection (1) of this section to whom a
person referred to in either such subsection is
delivered shall, upon sufficient authority,
receive, safely keep and detain that person
under custody in the prison, common gaol or
other place until he is returned to or
transferred to a penitentiary or discharged
from custody in accordance with law.
(3) The original of the warrant or other
instrument by which a person referred to in
subsection 16(2) or subsection (1) of this section
is committed to or is to be imprisoned in a
penitentiary or a copy thereof duly certified
by any judge or magistrate or by the clerk of
the court in which that person was convicted,
is sufficient authority for his detention in
accordance with subsection (2). 1964-65, c. 46,
s. 1 ; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 106.

## MENTALLY ILL OR DISEASED INMATES

**19.** (1) The Minister may, with the approv
al of the Governor in Council, enter into an
agreement with the government of any
province to provide for the custody, in a
mental hospital or other appropriate institu
tion operated by the province, of persons who,
having been sentenced or committed to
penitentiary, are found to be mentally ill or
mentally defective at any time during
confinement in penitentiary.
(2) Where no agreement has been made
pursuant to subsection (1) between the Minister
and the government of any province from
which a mentally ill or mentally defective
person is sentenced or committed to peniten
tiary, the officer in charge of the penitentiary
may, on the advice of the penitentiary
physician or psychiatrist, refuse to accept
custody of that person under the sentence or
committal or, if custody of that person has
been accepted, may, under the authority of a
written direction by the Commissioner, return
that person to the prison or other place of
confinement from which he was received.
(3) The Minister may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, enter into an
agreement with the government of any
province to provide for the custody, in
penitentiary hospitals, of persons who, having
been sentenced or committed to a provincial
prison, are found to be suffering from any
dangerous, contagious or infectious disease at
any time during the sentence.
(4) A person who, pursuant to subsection
(1), is confined in a provincial hospital or
other institution shall, during the term of his
confinement therein.be deemed to be confined
in a penitentiary.
(5) A person who, pursuant to subsection
(3), is confined in a penitentiary hospital
shall, during the term of his confinement
therein, be deemed to be confined in a
provincial prison. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 19.

## DISCHARGE OF DISEASED INMATES

**20.** Where, on the day appointed for the
lawful discharge of an inmate from a
penitentiary, he is found to be suffering from
a disease that is dangerous, contagious or
infectious, he shall be detained in the
penitentiary until such time as the officer in
charge has made appropriate arrangements
for the treatment of the inmate in an
appropriate provincial institution or until the
inmate is cured, whichever is the earlier. 1960-
61, c. 53, s. 20.

## YOUNG INMATES
2 1. (1) Where facilities exist for the sepa
rate confinement of young offenders within a
region of Canada, no person who, having
been sentenced or committed to penitentiary,
is under the age of sixteen years shall, within
that region, be confined in association with
persons who are twenty-one years of age or
more unless the Commissioner otherwise
directs in writing.
(2) Where, in any region of Canada, a
person under the age of sixteen years is
sentenced or committed to penitentiary and,
within that region, an institution is operated
by the government of a province for the
custody and training of persons under the age
of twenty-one years, the Commissioner may,
by warrant, authorize the transfer of that
person to such institution and that person
shall be dealt with accordingly.
(3) Where, in any region of Canada, a
person under the age of sixteen years is
confined in an institution operated by the
government of a province for the custody and
training of persons under the age of twenty-
one years and the warden, superintendent or
other officer in charge of that institution is of
the opinion that the person is unsuitable for
training in that institution, he may, by
warrant, approved in writing by the attorney
general or other provincial minister of the
Crown, authorize the transfer of that person
to any institution operated by the Government
of Canada within the region for the separate
confinement of young offenders. 1960-61, c.
53, s. 21.

## STATUTORY REMISSION

**22.** (1) Every person who is sentenced or
committed to penitentiary for a fixed term
shall, upon being received into a penitentiary,
be credited with statutory remission amount
ing to one-quarter of the period for which he
has been sentenced or committed as time off
subject to good conduct.
(2) Every inmate who, on the 1st day of
April 1962, was serving a sentence for a fixed
term shall be credited with statutory remission
amounting to one-quarter of the period
remaining to be served under his sentence,
without prejudice to any statutory remission
standing to his credit immediately prior to
the 1st day of April 1962.
(3) Every inmate who, having been credited
with statutory remission, is convicted in
disciplinary court of any disciplinary offence
liable to forfeit, in whole or in part, the
remission that remains to his credit,
no such forfeiture of more than thirty
days shall be valid without the concurrence
of the Commissioner or an officer of the
Service designated by him, nor more than
ninety days without the concurrence of the
Minister.
(4) Every inmate who is convicted by a
criminal court of the offence of escape,
attempt to escape or being unlawfully at large
forthwith forfeits three-quarters of the statu
tory remission standing to his credit at the
time that offence was committed.
(5) Statutory remission credited pursuant
to this section to a person who is sentenced or
committed to penitentiary for a fixed term
shall be reduced by the maximum amount of
statutory remission with which that person
was at any time credited under the Prisons
and Reformatories Act in respect of a term of
imprisonment that he was serving at the time
he was so sentenced or committed. 1960-61, c.
53,8.22; 1968-69, c. 38, s. 107.

**23.** The Commissioner or an officer of the
Service designated by him may, where he is
satisfied that it is in the interest of the
rehabilitation of an inmate, remit any
forfeiture of statutory remission but shall not
remit more than ninety days of forfeited
statutory remission without the approval of
the Minister. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 108.

## EARNED REMISSION

**24.** (1) Every inmate may be credited with
.1 i r i
three days remission of his sentence in respect
of each calendar month during which he has
applied himself industriously, as determined
in accordance with any rules made by the
Commissioner in that behalf, to the program
of the penitentiary in which he is imprisoned.
(2) Upon being committed to a penitentiary
pursuant to section 20 or 21 of the Parole Act,
an inmate shall be credited with earned
remission equal to the earned remission that
to his credit pursuant to any Act of the
Parliament of Canada at the time his parole
or mandatory supervision was revoked or
forfeited. 1968-69, c. 38, s. 108.

## PAROLE

**25.** Where,
  * (_a_) under the Parole Act, authority is
granted to an inmate to be at large during
his term of imprisonment, or
(6) a person who is at large by reason of
statutory or earned remission is subject to
mandatory supervision under the Parole
Act,
his term of imprisonment, for all purposes of
that Act, includes any period of statutory
remission and any period of earned remission
standing to his credit when he is released.
1968-69, c. 38, s. 108.

## TEMPORARY ABSENCE

**26.** Where, in the opinion of the Commis
sioner or the officer in charge of a penitentiary,
it is necessary or desirable that an inmate
should be absent, with or without escort, for
medical or humanitarian reasons or to assist
in the rehabilitation of the inmate, the
absence may be authorized from time to time
  * (_a_) by the Commissioner, for an unlimited
period for medical reasons and for a period
not exceeding fifteen days for humanitarian
reasons or to assist in the rehabilitation of
the inmate, or
  * (_b_) by the officer in charge, for a period not
exceeding fifteen days for medical reasons
and for a period not exceeding three days
for humanitarian reasons or to assist in the
rehabilitation of the inmate. 1960-61, c. 53,
s. 26.

## PENITENTIARY INDUSTRY

**27.** (1) There shall be a committee called
the Advisory Committee on Penitentiary
Industry, to be appointed by the Minister
to consist of not more than nine persons
from the fields of industry, labour,
and the general public, to advise
Commissioner concerning industrial oper
ations to be carried on by inmate labour in
connection with the Service.
(2) Members of the Advisory Committee
appointed pursuant to subsection (1) shall
serve without remuneration but are entitled
to be paid reasonable travelling and living
expenses incurred by them while absent from
their ordinary place of residence in connection
with the work of the Committee. 1960-61, c.
53, s. 27.

## BUILDINGS AND WORKS

**28.** The repair and maintenance of build
ings and works in relation to penitentiaries
and, to the extent specified by any order of
the Governor in Council, the construction of
such buildings and works, are under the
control and direction of the Commissioner.
1960-61, c. 53, s. 28.

## REGULATIONS AND RULES

**29.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) for the organization, training, discipline,
efficiency, administration and good gov
ernment of the Service ;
(6) for the custody, treatment, training,
employment and discipline of inmates ; and
  * (_c_) generally, for carrying into effect the
purposes and provisions of this Act.
(2) The Governor in Council may, in any
regulations made under subsection (1) other
than paragraph (6) thereof, provide for a fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars or impris
onment for a term not exceeding six months,
or both, to be imposed upon summary
conviction for the violation of any such
regulation.
(3) Subject to this Act and any regulations
made under subsection (1), the Commissioner
may make rules, to be known as Commission
er s directives, for the organization, training,
discipline, efficiency, administration and good
government of the Service, and for the
custody, treatment, training, employment and
discipline of inmates and the good government
of penitentiaries. 1960-61, c. 53, s. 29.

## ANNUAL REPORT
go. The Minister shall, on or before the
31st day of January next following the end
of each fiscal year, or if Parliament is not
then sitting on any of the first five days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting, submit
to Parliament a report showing the operations
of the Service for that fiscal year. 1960-61, c.
53, s. 30.
