
# CHAPTER P-9
Act to empower the employees of
incorporated companies to establish pen
sion fund societies

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Pension
Fund Societies Act. R.S., c. 208, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act "parent corporation" means
the corporation any of whose officers establish
or take proceedings to establish a pension
fund society under this Act. R.S., c. 208, s. 2.

**3.** The president, vice-president, general
manager, assistant general manager, or person
acting as such, cashier, assistant cashier and
inspector of any corporation legally transac
ting business in Canada, under any Act of
the Parliament of Canada, or any two of
those officers, with any other of the superior
officers, may at any time establish a pension
fund society in connection with the adminis
tration of such corporation under the regula
tions and subject to the supervision and
control hereinafter designated, and thereupon
they and the employees of such corporation
who join the society and those who replace
them from time to time, are and shall be
designated as the pension fund society of the
corporation, and under such name are a bod}
corporate and politic. R.S., c. 208, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Such of the said officers of any
corporation as desire to establish a pension
fund society under this Act, may make and
in duplicate a declaration in effect
  * (_a_) the names, residences and official posi
tions of the officers ;
  * (_b_) the name of the parent corporation ;
  * (_c_) the exact name of the society ; and
  * (_d_) the place within Canada that is to be
the chief place of business of the society.
(2) The declaration shall be filed in the
office of the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs, and in the office of the
registrar of deeds for the county or registration
division within which the chief place of
business of the society is to be situated.
(3) The officers who make and sign the
declaration shall be the provisional directors
of the society, and hold office until their
successors are appointed or elected. R.S., c.
208, s. 4; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45; 1967-68, c. 16,
s. 13.

**5.** (1) Notice of the incorporation of the
society shall be given by publication in the
Canada Gazette for four weeks and such notice
shall set forth
  * (_a_) the exact name adopted by the society ;
  * (_b_) the designation of the chief place of
business of the society ; and
  * (_c_) the name of the secretary thereof upon
whom legal process may be served.
(2) Notice of any change in such place or
in the person of the secretary shall also be
given in a similar way. R.S., c. 208, s. 5.

**5.** (i) The corporate name of a pension
fund society formed under this Act may be
changed
  * (_a_) if at a special general meeting called
for that purpose, or at any general meeting
the notice for which specifically mentions
that purpose among others, a by-law or a
resolution to change the corporate name to
some other name specified in the by-law or
resolution has been passed by a majority of
at least two-thirds of the votes cast at the
meeting by the contributories to the funds
or members of the society, including the
parent corporation ; and
  * (_b_) if upon application by the board of
directors of the society to the Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs and the
filing with him of a duly certified copy of
the resolution so passed and of such other
information as he may require, he is
satisfied
  * (_i_) that the change of name is not
proposed for any improper purpose,
  * (_ii_) that the new name proposed is not
that of any other known corporation,
association or body corporate or unincor
porated, or liable to be confounded
therewith, and
  * (_iii_) that the proposed change is not
otherwise objectionable.
(2) If the proposed new name appears to
Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs to be objectionable he may substitute
therefor some other name approved by him.
(3) When the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs has approved of a change
of name he may direct that notice thereof be
published in the Canada Gazette for four
consecutive weeks, at the society s expense,
specifying
  * (_a_) the corporate name of the society, its
chief place of business, and the name of its
secretary ;
(6) the new name as approved by the
Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs; and
  * (_c_) the date after such publication of notice
on which the change of name will take
effect.
(4) Upon and after the date so specified the
new name as approved by the Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs shall be the
corporate name of the society. R.S., c. 208, s.
6; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 13.

**7.** (1) The provisional directors have power
to call the first meeting of the society, and at
such meeting directors may be elected and
by-laws may be passed under the provisions
of this Act.
(2) Upon the passage of such by-laws, a
copy thereof and subsequent copies of other
by-laws in amendment thereof, in addition
thereto or in diminution thereof shall be filed
with the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs within two weeks from the passage
thereof. R.S., c. 208, s. 7; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45;
1967-68, c. 16, s. 13.
g. (1) The affairs of the society shall be
administered by a board of directors who shall
be appointed or elected in such manner, in
number, with such qualifications, and
for such period as are determined by the by
laws.
(2) At the first meeting of the society to be
held under this Act,
  * (_a_) five directors shall be elected, subject to
addition to such number if so sanctioned
by the by-laws, and
  * (_b_) other officers may be appointed in such
manner, with such remuneration, and under
such provisions concerning their powers and
duties as are established by the by-laws.
R.S., c. 208, s. 8.

**9.** Each contributory to the funds of the
society, including the parent corporation, has
such right to vote at general meetings of the
society, on such occasions, subject to such
restrictions and on such conditions as are
determined by the by-laws. R.S., c. 208, s. 9.
JQ. After its incorporation under this Act,
every pension fund society has the power by
means of voluntary contribution or otherwise
as its by-laws provide, to form a fund, and
may invest, hold and administer the fund
and from and out of the fund may
  * (_a_) provide for the support and payment of
pensions to officers and employees of the
parent corporation incapacitated by age or
infirmity, and
  * (_b_) upon the death of such officers or
employees, pay annuities or gratuities to
their widows and minor children or other
surviving relatives in such manner as may
be specified by the by-laws. R.S., c. 208,
s. 10.
U t (1) Every incorporated society has all
corporate powers necessary for the purposes
of this Act and may make by-laws not contrary
to law defining and regulating in the premises,
and prescribing the mode of enforcement of
all the rights, powers and duties of
  * (_a_) the society ;
  * (_b_) the individual members thereof ;
  * (_c_) the officers and employees of the parent
corporation ;
  * (_d_) the widows and orphans or other
surviving relatives of such officers and
employees ; and
  * (_e_) the parent corporation.
(2) Every incorporated society may also
by-laws as aforesaid for
  * (_a_) the formation and maintenance of the
pension fund ;
(6) the management and distribution there
of generally ;
  * (_c_) enforcing any penalty or forfeiture in
the premises ; and
  * (_d_) the government and ordering of all
business and affairs of the society.
(3) No by-law referred to in this section has
any force or effect unless it has been
sanctioned by the board of directors of the
parent corporation. R.S., c. 208, s. 11.

**12.** All the powers, authority, rights, penal
ties and forfeitures whatever in the premises,
whether of the society or of the individual
members thereof, or of the officers and
employees thereof or of such widows and
orphans and relatives, or of the parent
corporation shall be such as are defined and
limited by the by-laws of the society and may
be exercised and enforced in the manner
prescribed by those by-laws. R.S., c. 208, s. 12.

**13.** All the revenues of the society, from
whatever source derived, shall be devoted
exclusively to the maintenance of the society
and the furtherance of its objects. R.S., c. 208,
s. 13.

**14.** The parent corporation may and is
hereby authorized to contribute annually or
otherwise to the funds of the society, by a
vote of either its directors or its shareholders.
R.S., c. 208, s. 14.

**15.** The interest of any member in the
funds of the society is not transferable or
assignable in any manner whatever by way of
pledge, hypothecation, sale or security. R.S.,
c. 208, s. 15.

**16.** Every society formed under this Act
shall at all times when thereunto required by
the Governor in Council or by either House
of Parliament make a full return of its
property and of its receipts and expenditures
for such period and with such details and
c. 208, s. 16.

**17.** (1) A pension fund society established
under this Act may, at the request of the
parent corporation evidenced by a resolution
of its directors, admit to membership in the
society, upon such terms and conditions as
the society may determine, any officers or
employees of a subsidiary corporation of the
parent corporation and may
  * (_a_) provide for the support and payment of
pensions to such officers and employees
incapacitated by age or infirmity, and
(6) upon the death of such officers or
employees, pay annuities or gratuities to
their widows and minor children or other
surviving relatives in such manner as may
be specified by the by-laws of the society.
(2) All the provisions of this Act applicable
to officers and employees of the parent
corporation who are members of the society
apply mutatis mutandis to officers and
employees admitted to membership pursuant
to this section.
(3) A subsidiary corporation any of the
officers or employees of which have been
admitted to membership in a pension fund
society under this section may and is hereby
authorized to contribute annually or otherwise
to the funds of the society, by a vote of either
its directors or its shareholders, and as such
contributory has such right to vote at general
meetings of the society, on such occasions,
subject to such restrictions and on such
conditions as are determined by the by-laws
of the society.
(4) In this Act "subsidiary corporation"
means a corporation legally transacting
business in Canada, under any Act of the
Parliament of Canada, the majority of the
shares of which that have under all circum
stances full voting rights is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by or for the parent
corporation. R.S., c. 208, s. 17.

## SCHEDULE

## DECLARATION OF INCORPORATION
We the undersigned (describe the officials establishing the
society) do hereby declare that we have associated ourselves
together for the purpose of establishing a pension fund society
in connection with the administration of the under
the provisions of the Pension Fund Societies Act ;
That the proposed corporate name of the society shall be the
Pension Fund Society of the
That the chief place of business of the said society is to be
within the of
And we make this declaration for the purpose of establishing
the said society under the said Act.
In witness whereof we have executed these presents in dupli
cate at in the presence of this
day of 19
(Signatures)
Signed in the )
presence of )
R.S, c. 208, Sch.
