WHEREAS it has pleased Your Majesty to
approve the suggestion that the occasion of
Your visit to Canada and Your personal
interest in the well-being of children should
be marked by the establishment in Your
Name of a Fund to be devoted to the
furthering of research into the diseases of
children and the prevention and cure of such
diseases, to which all who wish in this way to
make a gift to Your Majesty may contribute :
May it therefore please Your Majesty, that it
may be enacted, and be it enacted by the
Queen s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate and
House of Commons of Canada, as follows :

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Queen
Elizabeth II Canadian Research Fund Act.
1959, c. 33, s. 1.

## THE FUND

**2.** There is hereby established a fund, to
be known as The Queen Elizabeth II Canadian
Fund to Aid in Research on the Diseases of
Children (hereinafter called the Fund), which
shall consist of all money, securities and other
property received by the Board of Trustees of
the Fund for the purposes thereof and shall
include all income derived therefrom and all
gifts, bequests, appropriations and other
contributions made thereto. 1959, c. 33, s. 2.

**3.** The purposes of the Fund are to assist
such diseases. 1959, c. 33, s. 3.

**4.** There is hereby appropriated for the
Fund, out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
the sum of one million dollars. 1959, c. 33, s.

**4.**

## THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

**5.** (1) A corporation is hereby established,
to be known as the Board of Trustees of the
Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Fund to Aid in
Research on the Diseases of Children (herein
after called the Board), consisting of a
Chairman and six other trustees to be
appointed by Her Majesty by commission
under the Great Seal.
(2) The head office of the Board shall be
at the city of Ottawa. 1959, c. 33, s. 5.

## POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD

**6.** The Board shall manage and administer
tne Fund in accordance with and subject to
this Act. 1959, c. 33, s. 6.

**7.** The Board may make such payments
out of the Fund for the purposes of the Fund
as it considers desirable. 1959, c. 33, s. 7.

**8.** The Board may invest any moneys of
the Fund in bonds or other securities of the
Government of Canada and may sell any
such bonds and securities. 1959, c. 33, s. 8.

**9.** The Board may appoint from among its
members or otherwise such advisory or other
committees as it considers necessary or
advisable for the administration of this Act.
1959, c. 33, s. 9.
JQ. The Board may, for the purposes of
this Act, acquire by purchase, lease, gift,
bequest or otherwise any real or personal
property and may own, hold, sell, manage or
otherwise deal therewith in such manner as it
may determine. 1959, c. 33, s. 10.
u. The Board may make by-laws for
its proceedings and generally for
this Act. 1959. c. 33, s. 11.

## GENERAL

**12.** A gift or bequest to the Fund or to the
Board for the purposes of the Fund shall be
deemed to be a gift to Her Majesty. 1959, c.
33, s. 12.

**13.** The Medical Research Council shall
provide to the Board without charge such
secretarial and other administrative and
technical services and facilities as are required
for the purposes of this Act, and moneys of
the Medical Research Council may be used
for this purpose and for other costs of
administration of the Fund. 1959, c. 33, s. 13;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.
AUDIT

**14.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Board shall be audited annually by
the Auditor General of Canada and the report
of the audit shall be made to the Board and
to the Prime Minister. 1959. c. 33, s. 14.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**15.** The Chairman of the Board shall
within three months after the 31st day of
March in each year submit to the Prime
Minister a report of proceedings under this
Act for the year ending on that day, including
the financial statements of the Board and the
Auditor General s report thereon, and the
Prime Minister shall cause such reports to be
laid before Parliament within fifteen days
after the receipt thereof, or if Parliament is
not then sitting, on any of the first fifteen
days next thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
