
# CHAPTER R-10
An Act to provide for the payment of pensions
to certain persons appointed as members
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
before the 1st day of March 1949. 1959, c.
34,s.30.

## SHORT TITLE
\. This Act may be cited as the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Pension Continuation
Act. 1959, c. 34, s. 31.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"constable" means any member of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police other than a
commissioned officer;
"Force" means the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police ;
"former Act" means chapter 241 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952 as it was
before the 1st day of April 1960;
"Marine Section" means the water transport
and personnel of the Force ;
"member of the Force" or "member" includes
the Commissioner and every other officer,
non-commissioned officer and man or
woman of the Force ;
"Minister" means the Minister for the time
having control and management of the
Force ;
"officer" means a commissioned officer of the
Force ;
"pay", for pension purposes, means the pay
of the substantive rank or appointment, but
not that of acting rank, and does not
include extra pay for staff and similar
temporary appointments;
means substantive rank or appoint
ment, but does not include acting rank;
"service" means service in the Force.
(2) A period during which a member of the
Force served as a special constable in the
Force or as a member of a provincial police
force may, in accordance with regulations of
the Governor in Council, be deemed to be a
period during which the member served in
the Force and to be service for the purposes
of this Act. R.S., c. 241, s. 2; 1959, c. 34,
ss. 29, 32.

## PARTI

## GENERAL

**3.** This Act does not apply to or in respect
of any person to whom Part VTof the former
Act applied at any time before the 1st day of
April 1960, or any person who served in the
Force at any time on or after that day as a
contributor under Part I of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police Superannuation Act. 1959, c.
34, s. 33.

**4.** The Governor in Council may by
regulation provide for payment out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, in the event of
the death of a member or former member of
the Force, upon application to the Minister
by or on behalf of any successor thereunder
to whom any pension or allowance becomes
payable under this Act, of the whole or any
part of such portion of any estate, legacy,
succession or inheritance duties or taxes that
are payable by the successor as is determined
in accordance with the regulations to be
attributable to that pension or allowance, and
prescribe the amounts by which and the
manner in which any such pension or
allowance shall be reduced. 1956, c. 45, s. 1 :
1959, c. 34, s. 35.

**5.** (1) Where a person has, either before or
after the 1st day of April 1960 suffered a
disability as a result of any injury or disease
aggravation thereof that arose out of, or
directly connected with, his service in the
he may be granted compensation,
medical and hospital expenses, at
rates and in such manner as the Governor
in Council may prescribe.
(2) Where a person described in subsection
M dies before he is granted compensation
under that subsection, his widow or, if there
is no widow, his children may be granted such
compensation in respect of the period preced
ing his death that he was disabled, including
medical and hospital expenses, as the Treasury
Board may prescribe.
(3) The provisions of the Government
Employees Compensation Act do not apply to
members of the Force. R.S., c. 241, s. 22 ; 1959,
c. 34, s. 36; 1968-69, c. 29, s. 36.

**5.** All sums of money required or authorized
to be paid by or under the authority of this
Act, and for payment of which no other
provision is made, shall be paid out of any
unappropriated moneys in the Consolidated
Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 241, s. 26.

**7.** (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
Act, any pension, gratuity or allowance
provided for by Part I, II or III shall be
granted only with the approval of the
Governor in Council and upon the further
condition, in the case of a member of the
Force, that it be granted only in consideration
of good and faithful service during the period
in respect of which it is calculated.
(2) Where a member of the Force is retired
by reason of misconduct, the fact of such
retirement and the circumstances thereof shall
be reported to the Pension Board established
pursuant to section 21 of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police Superannuation Act, and if the
Board, after investigation of the circumstances
surrounding any retirement reported to it
under this subsection, reports to the Minister
that it is in the public interest by reason of
good and faithful service rendered by the
member of the Force before the time of the
misconduct to grant a pension, the Minister
may recommend accordingly to the Treasury
Board and the Governor in Council may, on
the report of the Treasury Board in such case,
grant a pension equal to the whole or any
part specified by the Treasury Board of any
pension that might have been granted to him
if he had been retired in consequence of
permanent infirmity of body or mind. R.S.,
c. 241, s. 27; 1953-54, c. 43, s. 3; 1959, c. 34,
s. 37.

**8.** Pensions and compassionate allowances
granted under this Act are, unless otherwise
ordered by the Treasury Board, payable in
equal monthly instalments in arrears, and
unless otherwise specified by this Act, continue
during the lifetime of the recipient and
thereafter until the end of the month during
which he dies. 1968-69, c. 29, s. 37.

**9.** Where, upon the death of an officer
there is no person to whom a pension or a
compassionate allowance provided under this
Part or Part II may be paid or where the
persons to whom such pension or compassion
ate allowance may be paid, die or cease to be
eligible therefor and no other amount may be
paid to them under this Part or Part II, any
amount by which the aggregate of the
amounts deducted pursuant to section 16
exceeds the aggregate of all amounts paid to
those persons and to the officer under this
Part shall be paid to the estate of the officer.
1968-69, c. 29, s. 37.

## PART II

## OFFICERS PENSIONS

**10.** An officer who is retired compulsorily
for any cause other than misconduct or
inefficiency after ten years of service, is
entitled to a pension for life, not exceeding
one-fiftieth of the pay and allowances of his
rank or permanent appointment at the time
of his retirement for each completed year of
service. R.S., c. 241, s. 44(1).
1 1. The Governor in Council may by
regulation determine the amount of allow
ances for purposes of pension to be received
by the Commissioner and other officers of the
Force. R.S., c. 241, s. 44(2).

**12.** An officer who retires voluntarily after
twenty-five years of service is entitled to a
pension for life, twenty per cent less than he
would be entitled to if he were retired
compulsorily. R.S., c. 241, s. 45.

**13.** An officer who retires voluntarily after
thirty-five years of service is entitled to the
same pension as if he were retired compul
sorily. R.S.,c. 241,s.46.

**14.** (i) N O addition shall be made to such
pension for any service beyond thirty-five
years.
(2) If the service has not been continuous,
the period or periods during which such
service has been discontinued shall not be
counted. R.S., c. 241, s. 47.

**15.** (1) In the case of an officer who prior
to his appointment in the Force has served as
a non-commissioned officer or constable in
the Force or in the Dominion Police, the time
during which he has so served may be included
in his term of service or be computed as
service for the purposes of this Part, subject
to the provisions of section 16.
(2) Time served in the Civil Service that
could be reckoned for the purposes of Part I
of the Civil Service Superannuation and
Retirement Act may in like manner be included
in the term of service for the purpose of this
Part.
(3) Time served in the Civil Service during
which Part II of the Civil Service Superannua
tion and Retirement Act applied to the person
serving and during which the reservation of
five per cent was made out of his salary as
required by section 27 of that Act may in like
manner be included in the term of service for
the purpose of this Part.
(4) Subsections (1) and (3) shall be construed
and applied with relation to officers in the
Force on the 19th day of July 1924, as if those
subsections had been enacted on the 1st day
of February 1920.
(5) Time served on active service during
the war between Great Britain and Germany
that commenced on the 4th day of August
1914 may be included in the term of service
for the purpose of pension under this Part.
(6) Time served in the Civil Service that
counted toward superannuation and retire
ment under the various Civil Service Super
annuation and Retirement Acts, and time
served in the Customs-Excise Preventive
Sen-ice of the Department of National
Revenue may be included in the term of
service for the purpose of pension under this
Part.
(7) Recognition of prior service in and time
served in any provincial police force of a
province with which the Governor in Council
has entered into an arrangement under section
5 of the former Act, at the time of the officer s
appointment or re-appointment or subsequent
to such appointment or re-appointment, may
be included in his term of service for the
purposes of pension under this Part, if the
officer pays the amount required by the
Governor in Council.
(8) Time served in the permanent naval,
army or air forces of Canada may also be
included in the term of service of an officer
for the purposes of pension under this Part ;
and in such cases the yearly deduction of five
per cent upon average pay under this Part
from any pension shall be reduced by the
average yearly deduction from the officer s
salary or pay as a member of the permanent
naval, army or air forces, made under the
Defence Services Pension Continuation Act.
(9) Time served on active service during
the war that commenced in September 1939
may be included in the term of service of an
officer for the purposes of pension under this
Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 48;1959, c. 34, s. 38.

**16.** (1) A deduction toward making good
the pensions aforesaid shall be made from the
pay of every officer at the rate of five per
cent per annum on such pay ; but such
deduction shall not be made during more that
thirty-five years of service.
(2) if an officer becomes entitled to a
, . .
pension, and the deduction from his pay
provided for in this section has not been made
for as great a number of years as that upon
which his pension is based, the aggregate
amount of pay received by him during the
years for which no such deduction has been
made shall be divided by the number of such
years for the purpose of ascertaining the
average pay of such officer during such years,
and a yearly deduction amounting to five per
cent upon such average pay shall be made
from the pension of such officer, and such
deduction shall continue to be made until the
expiration of the number of years last
mentioned or the cessation of the payment of
the pension, whichever first happens; but if
the officer thinks fit, the deficiency in
deduction may be made good by him in one
payment.
(3) The sums deducted under this section
form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
R.S., c. 241, s. 49.

**17.** (i) jf an y officer is constrained, from
an y infirmity of body or mind, to quit the
Force before a period at which a pension
might be granted to him, the Governor in
Council may allow him a gratuity not
exceeding one month s pay for each year of
his service.
(2) If any such officer is so constrained to
^ u ^ tne serv i ce before such period by reason
of severe bodily injury, received without his
own fault, in the discharge of his public duty,
the Governor in Council may allow him a
gratuity not exceeding three months pay for
every two years of service. R.S., c. 241, s. 50.

**18.** If an officer is retired to promote
efficiency or economy in the service, the
Governor in Council may grant him such
gratuity as he would have been entitled to if
he had been retired in consequence of
permanent infirmity of body or mind. R.S.,
c. 241,s.51.

**19.** Subject to this Part, the Governor in
Council may, as to him seems fit, grant a
pension to the widow and a compassionate
allowance to each of the children of an officer
who, having completed ten years of service,
at the time of his death a member of the
or who is at the time of his death in
of a pension. 1959, c. 34, s. 39.

**20.** Such pension or compassionate allow
ance shall not be granted
  * (_a_) if the applicant is unworthy of it ;
(6) if the applicant is already wealthy ;
  * (_c_) if the officer married after retirement ;
  * (_d_) if the officer was at the time of his
marriage over sixty years of age ;
  * (_e_) in the case of an officer who married
after the 1st day of July 1902, if he was
more than twenty-five years older than his
wife ; or
  * (_f_) if the officer died within one year after
his marriage, unless he was manifestly in
good health at the time of his marriage,
and his death was caused by disease or
injury not due to causes within his own
control, and there are no other objections
to the granting of the pension or compas
sionate allowance. R.S., c. 241, s. 53.
2 1. The pension of a widow shall be,
  * (_a_) if her husband was at the time of his
death a member of the Force, an amount
equal to one-half of the pension to which
he would have been entitled if he had been
retired compulsorily immediately before his
death; or
(6) if he was on pension, an amount equal
to one-half of such pension. R.S., c. 241, s.
54; 1959, c. 34, s. 40.

**22.** (1) The compassionate allowance to a
child shall be
  * (_a_) in the case of the Commissioner, Deputy
Commissioner, or an Assistant Commission
er, eighty dollars ;
(6) in the case of a superintendent or
surgeon, seventy dollars ; and
  * (_c_) in the case of an inspector, assistant
surgeon or veterinary surgeon, sixty-five
dollars.
(2) If the child is motherless and in great
need, the allowance may be doubled. R.S., c.
241, s. 55.

**23.** The total amount paid to the widow
children of an officer during any year
not exceed the amount of the pension
which the officer was in receipt, or to which
would have been entitled, as the case may
R.S., c. 241, s. 56.

**24.** (1) A widow s pension or a child s
compassionate allowance shall be discon
tinued if such widow or child becomes
unworthy of it, or becomes wealthy.
(2) If the widow remarries, her pension shall
be suspended from the day following that of
her remarriage, but shall be resumed in the
event of the dissolution or annulment of that
marriage or in the event of the death of her
husband by that marriage, if she is otherwise
qualified.
(3) If, through her own neglect or omission,
the claim of a widow to pension is not
established before her death, the amount of
pension which she might have received, if
living, shall not be allowed to her representa
tives. R.S., c. 241, s. 57; 1968-69, c. 29, s. 38.

**25.** The compassionate allowance to an
officer s child ceases when such child, if a son,
reaches the age of eighteen, and when such
child, if a daughter, reaches the age of twenty-
one or marries. R.S., c. 241, s. 58.

**26.** No pension or compassionate allowance
shall be granted unless the Treasury Board
reports that the person to whom it is proposed
to grant it is eligible within the meaning of
this Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 59.

**27.** This Part applies, instead of the Civil
Service Superannuation and Retirement Act,
  * (_a_) to every officer appointed to the Force
after the 1st day of July 1902 ; and
(6) to every officer in the Force who is not
subject to Part I or II of the Civil Service
Superannuation and Retirement Act. R.S., c.
241,s.60.

**28.** Any deduction made from the pay of
an officer toward the Civil Service Superan
Fund or the Civil Service Retirement
may, if such officer so elected to accept
the provisions of the Mounted Police Officers
Pension Act, 1902, be counted as part of the
five per cent deduction required by this Part
making good the pensions aforesaid.
Superannuation and Retirement Act, as the case
may be, continues to apply as heretofore to
officers who are not subject to the application
of this Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 62.

**30.** Nothing in this Part affects the right
of the Governor in Council to dismiss or
remove any officer. R.S., c. 241, s. 63.

**31.** (1) Subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the Governor in Council may grant
a pension to the widow and a compassionate
allowance to each of the children of any
officer who loses his life in the performance
of duty, as a result of hardship, accident,
misadventure or violence.
(2) The pension of such widow shall be
equal to one-half the pay and allowances that
would have been permitted her deceased
husband for pension purposes, under this Act
at the time of his death, irrespective of
whether he had qualified for pension by
length of service or not, and the compassionate
allowance to each child shall be that stipulated
in section 22.
(3) The provisions of section 23 do not
apply in the case of the widow and children
of an officer who loses his life under the
conditions set forth in subsection (1).
(4) Payments of pension or compassionate
allowance granted to the widow and children
of an officer under this section are subject to
sections 24, 25 and 26. R.S., c. 241, s. 64.

## PART III

## CONSTABLES PENSIONS

**32.** When any constable has
  * (_a_) completed a service of twenty years, or
(6) completed a service of not less than ten
years, and has reached the age limit,
the Commissioner may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, require him to retire
upon the terms as to pension prescribed under
this Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 65.

**33.** (1) Subject to this Part, when any
constable
  * (_a_) has completed not less than ten years
of service, and is incapacitated from the
performance of his duty by infirmity of
mind or body, he may be invalided and
granted a pension for life ; or
  * (_b_) has completed not less than twenty
years of service, he shall be entitled to retire
and receive a pension for life.
(2) Any constable who receives a pension
before he has completed twenty years of
service shall be subject to return to service, as
provided by this Part, if he ceases to be
incapacitated and has not reached the age
limit. R.S., c. 241, s. 66.

**34.** (1) The pension of a constable on
retirement shall be
  * (_a_) if he has completed ten but less than
twenty-one years of service, one-fiftieth of
his annual pay and allowances during the
last year of his service for every year of
service ;
  * (_b_) if he has completed twenty-one but less
than twenty-five years of service, an annual
sum equal to twenty-fiftieths of his annual
pay and allowances during the last year of
his service, with an addition of two-fiftieths
of such pay and allowances for every
completed year of service above twenty
years; or
  * (_c_) if he has completed twenty-five years of
service, an annual sum equal to thirty-
fiftieths of his annual pay and allowances
during the last year of his service with an
addition of one-fiftieth of such pay and
allowances for every completed year of
service above twenty-five years, but the
pension shall not exceed two-thirds of such
annual pay and allowances.
(2) The Governor in Council may by
regulation determine the amount of allow
ances for pension purposes to be received by
any constable of the Force, and this subsection
shall be and be deemed to have been effective
from the 1st day of August 1919. R.S., c. 241,
s. 67.

**35.** (1) In the event of a pensioner being
re-engaged for service in the Force by reason
of the existence of a national emergency,
including war, his pension shall be discon
tinued until his re-engagement is terminated
by his final discharge from the Force.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Part,
payment of the pension of which any such
pensioner was in receipt prior to his re-
engagement as aforesaid shall, upon his final
discharge from the Force, be immediately
resumed ; but the Governor in Council may,
in his discretion, increase the amount of such
pension by an amount equal to one-fiftieth
of the annual pay and allowances of which
such pensioner was in receipt at the time of
his final discharge from the Force for each
year or, save as otherwise provided by
subsection (3), portion of a year of his service
during the period of his re-engagement as
aforesaid.
(3) In determining the period of service of
a pensioner under re-engagement as aforesaid
for the purposes of subsection (2), service of
six months or more but of less than one year
shall be counted as one-half of a year s service,
but service of less than six months shall not
count for the purposes of any increase of
pension; and where in the case of any
pensioner no allowances for the rank held by
him during re-engagement as aforesaid are
prescribed for pension purposes, the Minister
may recommend that such amount by way of
allowances as may in his opinion be considered
fair and just in the circumstances of the case
be taken into account for the purpose of
computing an increase of the pension of such
pensioner under subsection (2).
(4) In this section "pensioner" means any
constable who, prior to his re-engagement for
service in the Force, was in receipt of a
pension granted to him under this Act. R.S.,
c. 241, s. 68.

**36.** (1) For the purpose of estimating any
pension under this Part,
  * (_a_) if the service has not been continuous,
the period or periods during which such
service has been interrupted shall not be
counted; and
(6) neither working pay nor extra pay of
any man shall be considered.
(2) Time served on active service during
. ,    ^ . . ~
war between Great Britain and Germany
commenced on the 4th day of August
1914 may be included in the term of service
for the purpose of pension under this Part.
(3) Time served in the Civil Service that
counted toward superannuation and retire
ment under the various Civil Service Super
annuation and Retirement Acts, and time
served in the Customs-Excise Preventive
Service of the Department of National
Revenue, may be included in the term of
service for the purpose of pension under this
Part.
(4) Recognition of prior service in and time
j i , /.
served in any provincial police force of a
province with which the Governor in Council
has entered into an arrangement under section
5 of the former Act, at the time of the
constable s engagement or re-engagement or
subsequent to such engagement or re-engage
ment, may be included in his term of service
for the purpose of pension under this Part, if
the constable pays the amount required by
the Governor in Council.
(5) Time served in the permanent naval,
army or air forces of Canada may also be
included in the term of service of a constable
for the purposes of pension under this Part.
(6) Time served on active service during
the war that commenced in September 1939
may be included in the term of service for the
purpose of pension under this Part.
(7) Where a member of the Force, who has
made the payment required under this section
in respect of prior service in a provincial
police force, is certified by the Commissioner
to have been retained in the Force beyond
the maximum period of service that may be
counted for the purpose of computing a
pension under this Part by reason of the war
that commenced in September 1939, there
may be paid to him, or if he has died, to his
legal representatives, an amount that bears
the provincial police force, without interest,
that the period of his service that may be
counted for pension purposes in excess of the
maximum period that may be so counted,
bears to the total of his prior service in the
provincial police force in respect of which he
made payment ; but the amount payable
under this subsection shall not exceed the
total amount of the payment made by him in
respect of his prior service in the provincial
police force. R.S., c. 241, s. 69; 1959, c. 34,
s. 41.

**37.** No pension shall be granted to any
constable unless a board composed of three
officers, the rank of one of whom shall not be
less than that of superintendent, has certified
to his length of service and conduct, and that
other evidence has been adduced before it
which justifies the granting of a pension
under this Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 70.

**38.** (1) Before a pension is granted to a
constable, who after having served for less
than twenty years, retires on the ground of
his being incapacitated by infirmity of mind
or body for the discharge of his duty, a
medical board composed of a surgeon, or
assistant surgeon, or acting assistant surgeon,
or a medical practitioner employed by the
Force, and two other legally qualified medical
practitioners, shall certify that such constable
is so incapacitated and that the incapacity is
likely to be permanent.
(2) Until the liability of a constable to serve
again ceases, he shall, when required, furnish
satisfactory evidence certified by a legally
qualified medical practitioner that such
incapacity continues. R.S., c. 241, s. 71.

**39.** If such incapacity ceases before the
expiration of such time as would, together
with the period of service prior to his
retirement, make up a period of twenty years,
the constable is liable to serve again in the
Force ; and if, before the expiration of the
said time, he declines so to serve, or if, when
serving again, he neglects to perform his duty
being in a competent state of
health, he shall forfeit his pension. R.S., c.
241, s. 72.

**40.** If a constable fails or refuses, when
required, to be examined by a legally qualified
medical practitioner, the Commissioner has
the same power of requiring such constable to
serve again, and with the approval of the
Governor in Council, of declaring forfeited
the pension of such constable, as he would
have under the foregoing provisions of this
Part, if satisfied by the evidence of a legally
qualified medical practitioner that the
incapacity of such constable had ceased. R.S.,
c. 241,8.73.

**41.** (1) A constable so serving again is
entitled to retire at the same time as he would
be entitled to retire if the time that elapsed
between his retirement and the renewal of his
service were service.
(2) The time so elapsed shall not be
reckoned as service in calculating his pension
on his retirement. R.S., c. 241, s. 74.

**42.** When a pension is granted to a
constable on account of infirmity of mind or
body, and such infirmity is certified by a
medical board constituted as aforesaid to
have been brought about or been contributed
to by his own default, or by his vicious habits,
and such constable, but for such default or
habit, is entitled under this Part to a pension
of a fixed amount, the Governor in Council
may grant to him a less amount of pension
than the said fixed amount to which he would
otherwise have been entitled. R.S., c. 241,
s. 75.

**43.** A pension to a constable under this
Part shall be granted only upon condition
that it becomes forfeited, and may be
withdrawn,
  * (_a_) if the grantee is convicted of any
indictable offence;
(6) if the grantee knowingly associates with
thieves or suspected persons ; or
  * (_c_) if the grantee refuses to give to the
police any information and assistance in
his power for the detection of crime, for the
apprehension of criminals, or for the
suppression of any disturbance of the public
peace. R.S., c. 241, s. 76.

**44.** Every constable who obtains any
pension under this Part by any false represen
tation or false evidence, or by personation, by
malingering or feigning disease or infirmity,
or by maiming or injuring himself, or causing
himself to be maimed or injured, or otherwise
producing disease or infirmity, or by any
other fraudulent conduct, is guilty of an
offence, and liable, on summary conviction,
to imprisonment, with or without hard labour,
for a period not exceeding twelve months, or
to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars,
and shall forfeit the pension obtained. R.S.,
c. 241, s. 77.

**45.** (1) Subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the Governor in Council may grant
a pension to the widow and a compassionate
allowance to each of the children of any
constable who loses his life in the performance
of duty, as a result of hardship, accident,
misadventure or violence.
(2) The pension of a constable s widow shall
be equal to one-half the pay and allowances
which would have been permitted her deceased
husband for pension purposes, under this Act,
at the time of his death, irrespective of
whether he had qualified for pension by
length of service or not, and the compassionate
allowance to each child shall be sixty dollars
per annum.
(3) Payments of pension or compassionate
allowance granted to the widow and children
of a constable under this section are subject
to sections 24, 25 and 26. R.S., c. 241, s. 78.

## PART IV

## WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSIONS

**46.** This Part applies to
  * (_a_) every constable appointed after the 1st
day of October 1934 ; and
  * (_b_) every constable on the Force on the 1st
day of October 1934 who elects to contribute
under the provisions of section 47. R.S., c.
241, s. 79.

**47.** (1) For the purpose of providing the
cost of benefits payable under this Part, every
person to whom this Part applies shall
contribute, by deduction out of his pay, five
per cent of the stated rate of pay of his rank.
(2) In any month in which, due to leave of
absence or any other cause, the actual pay of
any such person is not at least equal to the
contributions to be deducted out of his pay
in that month under the provisions of this
and the following sections, then no part of
the contributions for that month shall be
deducted out of his pay, if any, but he may
nevertheless pay into the Consolidated Reve
nue Fund the full contributions required for
that month and if paid after the due date he
shall include interest for the period of the
delay in payment at the rate of four per cent
per annum.
(3) Every such person may at any time
authorize a supplementary deduction to be
made from his pay in accordance with the
following table :
45 2.89
(4) The contributions from time to time so
, v n
made by every such person, as well as any
other contributions made under this Part,
shall in effect be used as and when made to
purchase benefits to become payable conse
quent on the death of such person, whenever
death may occur, to or in respect of his widow
or children if survived by a widow or children
and to or in respect of his children and other
dependants if such person is not survived by
a widow.
(5) The benefits mentioned in subsection
(4) shall be as defined and described in section
48, and the said contributions shall be applied
in accordance with that section and the
schedule to this Part to purchase the said
benefits.
(6) Subject to subsection (7) any constable
on the Force on the 1st day of October 1934
who does not elect within eight months to
contribute under subsection (1) shall not
thereafter become subject to this Part unless
the Commissioner is satisfied that the health
of such constable is such as would be
satisfactory for enlistment in the Force.
(7) If due to remoteness of location or
difficulties of communication any constable,
in the opinion of the Commissioner, may not
have had a reasonable opportunity within the
eight months period of electing to so
contribute, the Commissioner may extend the
period of election of such constable for such
period as the Commissioner may deem
reasonable.
(8) For the purposes of this and the
following sections "child" includes stepchild
and adopted child. R.S., c. 241, s. 80.
4g. (l) Consequent on the death of every
person to whom this Part applies there shall,
subject to this Part, be paid the following
benefits, namely,
  * (_a_) if such person is survived by a widow, a
pension to her for life in such an amount
as may be purchased by the contributions
made by such person, always taking into
account the other benefits to be purchased
out of the said contributions as provided in
paragraphs (6) and (c) ;
(6) in respect of each child surviving such
person, an annuity payable to age eighteen,
if a son, and to age twenty-one, if a
daughter, in such an amount as may be
purchased by twenty-five per cent of the
contributions from time to time made or
such lesser percentage of the contribution
as may be sufficient to bring the child s
annuity up to seven per cent of the pay of
the rank of such person, except that the
annuity payable in respect of an orphan
child shall be double the annuity otherwise
payable to a child, but a double annuity
shall not be paid in respect of a child during
the lifetime of the stepmother of the child
nor shall a double annuity be payable in
respect of an adopted child of such person
during the lifetime of the widow of such
person ; and
  * (_c_) if such person is not survived by a
widow, a lump sum to be used as hereinafter
provided, the amount of the lump sum
being determined as follows, namely, the
lump sum shall equal in value a pension to
a female life aged twenty years older than
such person at his death but not exceeding
the age of seventy-five years, the annual
amount of the said pension being the same
as the widow s pension would be if such
person were survived by a widow.
(2) Where the age of any such person at the
date of his death exceeds the then age of his
widow by more than twenty years, the pension
to his widow shall be reduced in the proportion
of the value of a life annuity as at an age
just twenty years less than the age of such
person at the date of his death to the value
of an equal life annuity as at the actual age
of his widow at the said date.
(3) Where any such person marries after
termination of service in the Force and dies
within five years after his marriage, the value
of the pension to his widow shall not exceed
the lump sum benefit that would be payable
if he were not survived by a widow unless
within the said five years he establishes to
the satisfaction of the Commissioner that he
is in sound health.
(4) Where any such person marries after the
age of sixty years, the value of the pension to
his widow shall not exceed the lump sum
benefit that would be payable if he were not
by a widow.
(5) The annual total of the pension to the
and of the annuities to the children of
any such person shall not exceed seventy per
cent of the final annual rate of pay and
allowances for pension purposes of such
person. R.S., c. 241, s. 81.

**49.** (1) Where any such person is not
survived by a widow, the Minister shall,
having regard for all the circumstances,
determine the dependants and relatives of
such person who are in his opinion best
entitled to share in the lump sum benefit as
defined under paragraph 48(l)(c), and he shall
determine the proportion to which each is
entitled and the manner and time of payment,
whether as an annuity for life or for a term
of years or in any other manner, and payment
of the benefit or benefits shall be made
accordingly ; but the value of the benefits so
determined by the Minister shall not exceed
the said lump sum.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the
Minister is not bound by any expressed wish
or instrument in writing of such person in
regard to the disposition of the said lump
sum, but the Minister shall, nevertheless, take
into consideration any such expressed wish or
instrument in writing.
(3) Where it appears to the Minister that
there is no dependant, relative or other person
who has any special claim to share in the said
lump sum, then he shall direct payment
thereof to be made to the estate of the
deceased.
(4) Where any such person is survived by a
widow who, either before or after the 1st day
of April 1960, has died, and there is no person
to whom any annuity may be paid under this
Part, any amount by which the amount of
the contributions made by such person under
this Part exceeds the aggregate of all amounts
paid to the widow and any surviving children
of such person under this Part shall be paid
to the dependants and relatives of such
person, in such shares as the Minister considers
equitable and proper in the circumstances, or
to any of them, as the Minister may direct,
and in respect of any such payment subsections
(1) and (2) apply mutatis mutandis. R.S., c.
241,s.82; 1959, c. 34, s. 42.

**59.** (i) Every person who. at the date he
.
&amp;gt; . . .   . , . . .
becomes subject to this Part, has to his credit
a period of prior service, countable for pension
purposes under Part III, may contribute under
this Part in respect of such period of sen-ice
such an amount in one lump sum as would, if
applied as of the said date to purchase
benefits in the manner in which contributions
are required to be applied to purchase benefits
under sections 47 and 48, result in the purchase
of a widow s pension equal to one and one-
half per cent of the pay of such person at the
said date for each year of such prior service,
including therein any unsurrendered widow s
pension purchased under this Part during
such prior service.
(2) Any such person who does not contribute
^ e am unt computed in accordance with
subsection (1) within one year after becoming
subject to this Part may at any time thereafter
while a member of the Force contribute the
said amount provided the Commissioner is
satisfied that the health of such person is such
as would be satisfactory on enlistment in the
Force and subject to an addition to the said
amount of two per cent thereof for each
complete year or part thereof elapsed from
the said date, excluding the first such year,
but any amount so added shall not be deemed
to be a part of the contribution for the
purposes of computing any benefit or any
refund of contribution payable under this
Part ; the terms of subsection 47(7) apply to
this subsection.
(3) Instead of contributing the full amount
determined in respect of such period of service
as provided hereinbefore in this section, any
such person may contribute any portion
thereof and in event of his death there shall
become payable benefits determined in accord
ance with section 48.
(4) Any lump sum contribution to be made
under this section may be liquidated in equal
monthly instalments of equivalent value
during a term of years or until the earlier
death of such person or for the whole lifetime
such person, and for the purpose of
benefits hereunder the lump sum
shall be deemed to have been
on the date of payment of the first
monthly instalment.
(5) T ne monthly instalment payments shall
ijj De deducted j from / the ,1 pay of ru such person and j
any payments thereof falling due after the
date of pension of such person shall be
deducted from his pension, but the whole or
any portion of such monthly instalment
payments may at any time be commuted and
paid in one sum. R.S., c. 241, s. 83.
5 \ f (i) Any person to whom this Part
i . i ... /.
applies may within one year after confirma-
tion of promotion to any non-commissioned
rank, contribute in one lump sum an amount
which, when applied to purchase benefits in
the manner in which contributions are required
to be applied to purchase benefits under
sections 47 and 48, will be sufficient, together
with the contributions made prior to promo
tion in accordance with sections 47 and 50
and in accordance with this section, if any, to
provide in respect of his service a widow s
pension equal to one and one-half per cent of
the pay of his new rank for each year of such
service, including therein any widow s pension
already purchased under this Part ; the terms
of subsection 47(7) apply to this subsection.
(2) Subsections 50(2),(3),(4) and (5) apply
mutatis mutandis to the payment of any such
amount R.S., c. 241, s. 84.

**52.** Where the service of any person to
whom this Part applies terminates, or where
he is promoted to a commissioned rank
  * (_a_) he may continue to pay any instalments
of contributions being paid by him under
section 50 or 51 and in event of his death
there shall become payable benefits deter
mined in accordance with section 48, but if
payment of any such instalment of contri
butions is discontinued before completion
thereof a reduction shall be made in the
value of the prospective benefits so deter
mined as of the date of discontinuance of
the instalment payments equivalent to the
value of the instalments unpaid as of the
said date, or
(6) he may, at the date of such termination
service after promotion as aforesaid, or, in
either case, at any time thereafter, in
satisfaction of all other rights, benefits and
equities under this Act, withdraw in one
sum the amount of his contributions made
under this Part without interest, less the
value of the instalment payments of
contribution, if any, at the date of discon
tinuance thereof, being made by him under
sections 50 and 51. R.S., c. 241, s. 85.

**53.** Pension and annuity benefits granted
under this Part are payable monthly, except
that where the monthly amount is small, the
payment may be made quarterly, half-yearly
or annually in accordance with regulations
made in that behalf. R.S., c. 241, s. 86.

**54.** (i) A child s annuity is payable to the
mother of the child or to such other person as
may for the time being have the custody of
tne child, but if the Minister is satisfied that
due to any special circumstances it would be
in the interests of the child so to do, he may
direct that the annuity shall be paid to any
other person, society, institution or local
authority to be administered for the benefit
of the child.
(2) A woman is disqualified from receiving
any pension or annuity under this Part so
long as she and any person, not her husband,
are cohabiting together as man and wife, and
any person is disqualified from receiving any
pension or annuity while in gaol or in prison,
but the pension or annuity payable to or in
respect of any such person may be used for
the benefit of such other person or persons as
may in the opinion of the Minister be best
entitled thereto. R.S., c. 241, s. 87.

**55.** (i) All contributions under this Part
shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue
Fund and all payments made under this Part
shall be made from that Fund.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, there shall
Minister of Finance an account to be
called the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
(Dependants) Pension Fund to which shall be
credited all contributions made under this
Part and against which shall be charged all
pensions, annuities and other benefits paid
under this Part.
(3) Interest shall be added to the balance
from time to time standing to the credit of
said account at the rate of four per cent per
annum.
(4) The Fund shall be annually examined
by the Auditor General of Canada, and a
statement of the Fund and of the transactions
thereunder for the year shall, together with
the report of the Auditor General thereon, be
laid before Parliament. R.S., c. 241, s. 88.

**56.** (1) The Minister of Finance shall cause
a valuation of the assets and liabilities of the
Fund to be made as at March 31, 1939 and
every five years thereafter, by an actuary
qualified to make valuations for fraternal
benefit societies registered under the laws of
Canada to transact business in Canada, and
the said Minister may in like manner cause a
valuation to be made at such times during
the currency of any quinquennial period as
he may think fit.
(2) The actuary shall report to the Minister
of Finance and in his report he shall describe
the data and processes used in his investigation
and the bases of the valuation and shall show
in summary form the data and the results of
the investigation and valuation, and shall
make recommendations for the disposal of
any surplus or for the removal of any
deficiency or in respect of any other matters
that may come to his attention in the course
of his investigation as may to him appear
necessary or desirable.
(3) Every such report shall be laid before
Parliament as soon as possible after it is
made. R.S., c. 241, s. 89.

**57.** (1) Where it appears from a report
made under section 56 that the Fund is
substantially in excess of the amount required
to make adequate provision for the prospective
payments to be made out of it, the Governor
in Council may by order increase the benefits
provided in this Part, or any of them, in such
as may appear equitable and expedi
ent, or if it appears that the Fund is less than
the said amount, the Governor in Council
may direct that there be credited to the Fund
out of any unappropriated moneys in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund such amount as
may appear equitable and expedient so as to
re-establish the solvency of the Fund.
(2) The Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the Minister of Finance,
may by order amend the Tables in the
schedule to this Part, but no amendment to
the Tables affects any benefits theretofore
purchased.
(3) Any order made under this section shall
be laid before Parliament as soon thereafter
as may be. R.S., c. 241, s. 90.

**58.** Every person to whom this Part applies
is entitled in making a return of his income
for the purposes of taxation under any Act of
the Parliament of Canada, to claim exemption
from taxation in respect of any contributions
made under this Part by deduction out of his
pay during the taxation period in respect of
which the return is made. R.S., c. 241, s. 91.

**59.** The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the bases for determining
the value of the lump sum benefit when
any person subject to this Part is not
survived by a widow and for determining
the value of benefits payable in lieu of the
said lump sum ;
  * (_b_) prescribing the bases for computing
instalment payments of lump sum contri
butions and the commutation of such
instalment payments;
  * (_c_) prescribing bases for computing the
reduction of benefits as a consequence of
discontinuance of instalment payments of
any lump sum contribution ;
  * (_d_) prescribing rules and procedure so far
as may be necessary for making all
computations hereunder ; and
  * (_e_) generally for carrying this Part into
effect or for any other purpose deemed
necessary to give effect to the terms of this
Part. R.S., c. 241, s. 92.

## SCHEDULE TO PART IV

## CONTRIBUTIONS REQUIRED TO PURCHASE

## BENEFITS DESCRIBED IN SECTION 48
TABLE I
Showing the contribution required to purchase an annuity
of ten dollars per annum (payable monthly) to each child
surviving a member of the Force payable to age eighteen,
if a son, and to age twenty-one, if a daughter, the annuity
being twenty dollars per annum in respect of an orphan child,
subject to the provisions of section 48.
Age of member Amount of con
of the Force at tribution (lump
date contribution sum) required
is made to purchase the
above benefit
18 and under $10.46
19 . 10.92
20 11.41
1 11.91
2 12.44
3 12.99
4 13.57
25 14.18
6 14.68
7 15.14
8 15.53
9 15.87
30 16.14
1 16.36
2 16.52
3 16.63
4 16.70
35 16.72
6 16.71
7 16.65
8 16.55
9 16.42
40 16.24
1 16.03
2 15.78
3 15.50
4 15.19
45 14.84
6 14.46
7 14.05
8 13.62
9 13.17
Amount of con
Age of member tribution (lump
of the Force at sum) required
date contribu to purchase the
tion is made above benefit
50 12.71
1 1253
2 11.74
3 11.23
4 10.73
55 10.22
6 9.71
7 9.22
8 8.75
9 8.31
NOTE. The above table shall be applied in computing benefits in
effect as follows:
(1) the age of the member shall be taken to the nearest month at
date the contribution is made, and
(2) an adjustment shall be made in the values in the second column
of the above Table corresponding to the age of the member so
determined.
TABLE II
Showing the contribution required to purchase a life annuity
of ten dollars per annum (payable monthly) to the widow of
a member of the Force, if survived by a widow, and a life
annuity of like amount, if he is not survived by a widow,
payable to a female aged twenty years more than the member
of the Force at his death but not exceeding the age of seventy-
five years.
of at sum) required
date contribu to purchase the
tion is made above benefit
35 37.41
6 38.24
7 39.10
8 39.97
9 40.86
40 41.76
1 42.68
2 43.62
3 44.57
4 45.54
45 46.51
6 47.47
7 48.44
8 49.41
9 50.38
50 51.34
1 52.30
2 53.25
3 54.19
4 55.12
55 56.03
6 56.93
7 57.77
8 58.57
9 59.35
NOTE. The above table shall be applied in computing benefits in
effect as follows:
(1) the age of the member shall be taken to the nearest month at
date the contribution is made, and
(2) an adjustment shall be made in the values in the second column
of the above Table corresponding to the age of the member so
determined.
R.S., c. 241, Sch. to Part IV.
