
# CHAPTER R-4
An Act respecting the Department of Regional
Economic Expansion

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of Regional Economic Expansion Act.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Atlantic Region" means the region compris
ing the Provinces of New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island and New
foundland ;
"Council" means the Atlantic Development
Council established by section 11 ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Regional
Economic Expansion ;
"special area" means an area that is a special
area by virtue of an order made by the
Governor in Council pursuant to section 6.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 20.

## DEPARTMENT CONSTITUTED

**3.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Regional Economic Expansion over which
the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion
appointed by commission under the Great
Seal shall preside.
(2) The Minister holds office during pleas
ure and has the management and direction of
the Department of Regional Economic Expan
1968-69, c. 28, s. 21.

**4.** The Governor in Council may appoint
Economic Expansion to be the
deputy head of the Department of Regional
Economic Expansion and to hold office
during pleasure. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 22.

## DUTIES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

## MINISTER

**5.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister extend to and include
  * (_a_) all matters over which the Parliament
of Canada has jurisdiction, not by law
assigned to any other department, branch
or agency of the Government of Canada,
relating to economic expansion and social
adjustment in areas requiring special meas
ures to improve opportunities for productive
employment and access to those opportuni
ties; and
  * (_b_) such other matters over which the
Parliament of Canada has jurisdiction
relating to economic expansion and social
adjustment as are by law assigned to the
Minister. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 23.

## SPECIAL AREAS

**6.** The Governor in Council, after consul
tation with the government of any province,
may by order designate as a special area, for
the period set out in the order, any area in
that province that is determined to require,
by reason of the exceptional inadequacy of
opportunities for productive employment of
the people of that area or of the region of
which that area is a part, special measures to
facilitate economic expansion and social
adjustment. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 24.

**7.** (1) In exercising his powers and carrying
out his duties and functions under section 5,
the Minister shall
  * (_a_) in cooperation with other departments,
branches and agencies of the Government
of Canada, formulate plans for the economic
expansion and social adjustment of special
areas; and
  * (_b_) with the approval of the Governor in
Council, provide for coordination in the
implementation of those plans by depart
ments, branches and agencies of the Gov-
ernment of Canada and carry out such
parts of those plans as cannot suitably be
undertaken by such other departments,
branches and agencies.
(2) i n formulating and carrying out plans
under subsection (1), the Minister shall make
provision for appropriate cooperation with
the provinces in which special areas are
located and for the participation of persons,
voluntary groups, agencies and bodies in
those special areas. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 25.

**8.** (1) The Minister may, in cooperation
with any province, formulate a plan of
economic expansion and social adjustment in
a special area and, with the approval of the
Governor in Council and subject to the
regulations, enter into an agreement with that
province for the joint carrying out of such
plan.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), detailed
negotiation of any draft agreement under this
section shall not be undertaken by or on
behalf of the Minister unless the plan to
which the draft agreement relates has first
been approved by the Governor in Council.
(3) An agreement entered into pursuant to
this section may be entered into with one or
more provinces in respect of one or more
special areas and
  * (_a_) shall provide for the use, where appro
priate, of the services and facilities of other
departments, branches and agencies of the
Government of Canada ;
(6) may provide for the payment to a
province of contributions in respect of the
costs of the programs and projects to which
the agreement relates that are to be
undertaken by the government of the
province or any agency thereof or any of
those programs or projects ; and
  * (_c_) ma} r provide that Canada and a province
may procure the incorporation of one or
more agencies or other bodies, to be jointly
controlled by Canada and the province, for
the purpose of undertaking or implementing
programs or projects to which the agreement
relates or any part of such programs or
projects. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 26.

**9.** (1) The Minister may, with the approval
of the Governor in Council and subject to the
regulations, enter into an agreement with any
province providing for the payment by
Canada to the province of a grant or loan in
respect of a part of the capital cost of
establishing, expanding or modernizing any
work or facility for the economic expansion
of a special area.
(2) No agreement shall be entered into
pursuant to subsection (1) unless the Minister
is satisfied that the establishment, expansion
or modernization of the work or facility is
essential to the successful implementation of
a plan undertaken pursuant to section 7 or 8
and that assistance is required to enable the
work or facility to be established, expanded
or modernized. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 27.

**10.** (1) Where the Minister is satisfied that
the establishment, expansion or moderniza
tion of any commercial undertaking in a
special area is essential to the successful
implementation of a plan undertaken pur
suant to section 7 or 8 and that special
assistance is required to enable the undertak
ing to be established, expanded or modernized,
the Minister may, with the approval of the
Governor in Council and subject to the
regulations, enter into an agreement with the
person carrying on or proposing to carry on
the commercial undertaking in the special
area providing for
  * (_a_) the guarantee, by Canada, of payment
of the principal or interest of any loan
required to be obtained by that person to
enable him to establish, expand or modern
ize the undertaking ;
  * (_b_) the payment by Canada of a grant or
loan in respect of a part of the capital cost
of establishing, expanding or modernizing
the undertaking ; or
  * (_c_) the payment by Canada of a grant in
respect of such part of the costs of bringing
into commercial production and operating
the new, expanded or modernized under
taking that are incurred within a period not
exceeding three years from the date the
new, expanded or modernized undertaking
is first brought into operation as, in the
opinion of the Minister, is attributable to
factors associated with the location of the
undertaking in the special area.
(2) An agreement described in subsection
(1) shall not provide for special assistance in
any amount greater than the amount, as
determined by the Minister, that is required
to enable the person carrying on or proposing
to carry on the commercial undertaking to
which the agreement relates to establish,
expand or modernize the undertaking in the
special area. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 28.

## ATLANTIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL

**11.** There shall be a council to be called
the Atlantic Development Council consisting
of not more than eleven members to be
appointed by the Governor in Council as
provided in section 14. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 29.

**12.** The membership of the Council shall
be constituted, after consultation with the
governments of the provinces of the Atlantic
region and such other persons or organizations
as the Minister considers appropriate, in such
a manner as to reflect the economic structure
of the Atlantic region. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 30.

**13.** It is the function of the Council to
advise the Minister, in respect of the Atlantic
region, on matters to which the duties, powers
and functions of the Minister extend and, in
particular, to give consideration to, and make
reports and recommendations to the Minister
on,
  * (_a_) plans, programs and proposals for
fostering the economic expansion and social
adjustment of the Atlantic region;
(6) the feasibility of particular programs
and projects and the contribution those
programs and projects will make to the
economic expansion and social adjustment
of the Atlantic region ; and
  * (_c_) such other matters, relating to the duties

**14.** The members of the Council shall be
appointed to hold office during pleasure for
such term, not exceeding three years, as will
ensure as far as possible the expiration in any
one year of the terms of appointment of fewer
than half of the members so appointed. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 32.

**15.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
designate one of the members to be Chairman
of the Council and one of the members to be
Vice-Chairman of the Council, during pleas
ure.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the Chairman of the Council or if the
office of Chairman is vacant, the Vice-
Chairman has and may exercise and perform
all the duties and functions of Chairman.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 33.

**16.** A retiring member of the Council is
eligible for re-appointment to the Council.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 34.

**17.** The members of the Council shall serve
without remuneration but
  * (_a_) the Chairman and Vice-Chairman may
each be paid such amount per annum as an
honorarium as may be approved by the
Governor in Council ; and
(6) each member of the Council is entitled
to be paid reasonable travelling and other
expenses incurred by him while absent from
his ordinary place of residence in the course
of his duties under this Act. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 35.

**18.** The Council shall meet at least twice
a year at such place in the Atlantic region as
the Council considers appropriate or in the
city of Ottawa, and may meet at such other
times as it deems necessary. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**36.**

**19.** Th e Council may make rules for the
regulation of its proceedings and the conduct
of its activities. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 37.

**20.** The Minister shall provide the Council
with an officer to be secretary of the Council
and, with the approval of the Treasury Board,
such other assistance as the Council may
require. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 38.

## GENERAL

**21.** The Governor in Council may make
  * (_a_) respecting the factors relating to
inadequacy of opportunities for productive
employment to be taken into account in
determining whether an area or the region
of which an area is a part requires special
measures to facilitate economic expansion
and social adjustment ;
(6) defining, for the purposes of this Act,
the expressions "work or facility for the
economic expansion of a special area" and
"commercial undertaking";
  * (_c_) respecting the factors to be taken into
account in determining the form and extent
of any special assistance that may be
provided in respect of any commercial
undertaking pursuant to section 10; and
  * (_d_) generally for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**39.**

**22.** The Minister shall, on or before the
31st day of January next following the end
of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first five days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting, submit
to Parliament a report showing the operations
of the Department of Regional Economic
Expansion for that fiscal year. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 40.
