statutory regulations

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Regulations
Act. R.S., c. 235, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"regulation" means a rule, order, regulation,
by-law or proclamation
  * (_a_) made, in the exercise of a legislative
power conferred by or under an Act of
Parliament, by the Governor in Council,
the Treasury Board, a minister of the
Crown, or a board, commission, corporation
or other body or person that is an agent or
servant of Her Majesty in right of Canada,
or
(6) for the contravention of which a penalty
of fine or imprisonment is prescribed by or
under an Act of Parliament,
but does not include
  * (_c_) an ordinance of the Yukon Territory or
the Northwest Territories,
  * (_d_) an order or decision of a judicial
tribunal,
  * (_e_) a rule, order or regulation governing the
practice or procedure in any proceedings
before a judicial tribunal, or
(/) a rule, order, regulation or by-law of a
corporation incorporated by or under an
Act of Parliament unless the rule, order,
regulation or by-law comes within para
graph (6);
"regulation-making authority" means every
authority authorized to make regulations
and with reference to a regulation means
the authority that made the regulation.
R.S., c. 235, s. 2.

## TRANSMISSION AND RECORDING

**3.** (1) Every regulation-making authority
shall, within seven days after making a
regulation or, in the case of a regulation made
in the first instance in one only of its official
language versions, within seven days after its
making in that version, transmit copies of the
regulation in both official languages to the
Clerk of the Privy Council.
(2) A copy of a regulation transmitted to
the Clerk of the Privy Council under
subsection (1), other than one made by the
Governor in Council or the Treasury Board,
shall be certified by the regulation-making
authority to be a true copy of the regulation.
R.S., c. 235, s. 3; 1968-69, c. 54, s. 39.

**4.** (1) The Clerk of the Privy Council shall
maintain a record in which he shall record
the regulations transmitted to him under
section 3 and the regulations made by the
Governor in Council or the Treasury Board.
(2) Every regulation recorded under this
section shall bear a number assigned to it by
the Clerk of the Privy Council, but all copies
of the same regulation, whether they are in
English or in French, shall bear the same
number. R.S., c. 235, s. 4.

**5.** (1) A regulation is not invalid by reason
only that it was not transmitted to the Clerk
of the Privy Council, certified or recorded as
required by this Act.
(2) In addition to any other mode of
citation, regulations may be cited or referred
to by the expression "Statutory Orders and
Regulations" or "SOR" followed by the
number thereof. R.S., c. 235, s. 5.

## PUBLICATION

**6.** (i) Every regulation shall be published
in the Camda Gazette within twenty-three
days after copies thereof in both official
languages are transmitted to the Clerk of the
Privy Council pursuant to subsection 3(1).
(2) A regulation-making authority may by
extend the time for publication of a
regulation and the order shall be published
the regulation.
(3) No regulation is invalid by reason only
that it was not published in the Canada
Gazette, but no person shall be convicted for
an offence consisting of a contravention of
any regulation that at the time of the alleged
contravention was not published in the
Canada Gazette in both official languages
unless
  * (_a_) the regulation was, pursuant to section
9, exempted from the operation of subsection
(1), or the regulation expressly provides
that it shall operate according to its terms
prior to publication in the Canada Gazette,
and
  * (_b_) it is proved that at the date of the
alleged contravention reasonable steps had
been taken for the purpose of bringing the
purport of the regulation to the notice of
the public, or the persons likely to be
affected by it, or of the person charged.
R.S., c. 235, s. 6; 1968-69, c. 54, s. 39.

## REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

**7.** Every regulation shall be laid before
Parliament within fifteen days after it is
published in the Canada Gazette or, if
Parliament is not then in session, within
fifteen days after the commencement of the
next ensuing session. R.S., c. 235, s. 7:
JUDICIAL NOTICE

**8.** (1) A regulation that has been published
in the Canada Gazette shall be judicially
noticed.
(2) In addition to any other mode of proof,
evidence of a regulation may be given by the
production of the Canada Gazette purporting
to contain the text thereof.
(3) For the purposes of this section the
publication of a regulation in a consolidation
or supplement published pursuant to section
9 is deemed to be publication in the Canada
Gazette. R.S., c. 235, s. 8.

## REGULATIONS

**9.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
  * (_a_) prescribing the powers and duties of the
Clerk of the Privy Council under this Act ;
(6) prescribing the system of recording,
indexing and preparation for the publica
tion of regulations;
  * (_c_) providing for the preparation and pub
lication of consolidations of regulations and
for the preparation and publication of
supplements to such consolidations; and
  * (_d_) for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act.
(2) The Governor in Council may by
regulation exempt any regulation or class of
regulations from the operation of section 3,
section 4, subsection 6(1), and section 7, but
every regulation made under this subsection
shall be published in English and in French
in the Canada Gazette within thirty days after
it is made and shall be laid before Parliament
within fifteen days after it is published in the
Canada Gazette or, if Parliament is not then
in session, within fifteen days after the
commencement of the next ensuing session.
R.S., c. 235, s. 9.
