
# CHAPTER R-6
An Act respecting the office of Representation
Commissioner

## SHORT TITLE
j. This Act may be cited as the Represen
tation Commissioner Act. 1963, c. 40, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"Commissioner" means the Representation
Commissioner ;
"electoral boundaries commission" means a
commission established under the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act;
"Minister" means the Secretary of State of
Canada.
(2) Unless otherwise provided in this Act
all words and expressions used in this Act
have the same meaning as in the Canada
Elections Act. 1963, c. 40, s. 2.

## REPRESENTATION COMMISSIONER

**3.** There shall be a Representation Com
missioner who shall be appointed by resolution
of the House of Commons. 1963, c. 40, s. 3.

**4.** (i) Subject to subsection (2), the Com
missioner holds office during good behaviour
but is removable by the Governor General on
address of the Senate and House of Commons.
(2) The Commissioner ceases to hold office
upon attaining the age of sixty-five years.
1963, c. 40, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Commissioner shall rank as and
have all the powers of a deputy head of a
department and shall communicate with the
Governor in Council through the Minister.
(2) The Commissioner shall be paid a salary
of twenty-seven thousand dollars per annum.
(3) The Commissioner shall be paid reason
able travelling and living expenses while
absent from his ordinary place of residence in
the course of his duties. 1963, c. 40, s. 5 ; 1966-
67, c. 84, s. 3.

**6.** (1) In the event of the death of the
Commissioner while Parliament is not sitting,
or in the event of his inability or neglect to
perform the duties of his office, a substitute
Commissioner shall, upon the application of
the Minister, be appointed by the Chief
Justice of Canada, or in his absence by the
senior judge of the Supreme Court of Canada
then present in Ottawa.
(2) Upon his appointment a substitute
Commissioner shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties of the Commissioner until
fifteen days after the commencement of the
next following session of Parliament unless
the Chief Justice of Canada, or the judge by
whom the order appointing him was made,
sooner directs that such order be rescinded.
(3) In the absence of both the Chief Justice
of Canada and of the judge of the Supreme
Court of Canada by whom a substitute
Commissioner has been appointed the order
appointing such substitute Commissioner may
be rescinded by any other judge of that Court.
(4) The substitute Commissioner shall be
paid such salary as is fixed by the Governor
in Council and shall be paid reasonable
travelling and living expenses while absent
from his ordinary place of residence in the
course of his duties. 1963, c. 40, s. 6.

## DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER

**7.** The Commissioner shall carry out such
functions and duties as are assigned to him
by this Act or by any other Act of the
Parliament of Canada, and may carry out
other assignments and engage in such
other activities as may be authorized by the
Governor in Council. 1963, c. 40, s. 7.

**8.** (1) As soon as possible after the comple
tion of any decennial census, the Commis
sioner shall prepare maps showing the distri
bution of population in each province and
setting out alternative proposals respecting
the boundaries of electoral districts in each
province, and shall thereupon supply such
maps to the appropriate electoral boundaries
commission.
(2) The Dominion Statistician and the
Director of the Surveys and Mapping Branch
of the Department of Energy, Mines and
Resources shall make available their services
and the facilities of their respective offices,
and render all such other assistance to the
Commissioner as may be necessary in order
to enable the Commissioner to discharge his
duties under this section. 1963, c. 40, s. 8;
1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**9.** (1) The Commissioner shall
  * (_a_) review and study methods of registration
of electors used in provincial and national
elections in provinces and countries where
continuous electoral rolls are maintained ;
(6) review and study methods of absentee
voting used in provincial and national
elections in provinces and countries where
provision is made for absentee voting by
electors who, by reason of absence, illness
or other cause, are unable to vote at such
elections in the polling districts or divisions
in which they ordinarily reside ; and
  * (_c_) prepare a report setting forth his
recommendations as to whether or the
extent to which the methods of registration
and methods of absentee voting referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (6) might be applied
to, or adapted for use in, federal elections
in Canada, with a view to reducing the
time required for the holding of such
elections and providing improved facilities
for voting by electors at such elections.
(2) The Commissioner shall complete the
report referred to in paragraph (l)(c) not later
two years after the 23rd day of April
1968, the day on which the first representation
made pursuant to the Electoral Boun
daries Readjustment Act after the decennial
census taken in the year 1961 was declared to
be in force, and shall include such report in
the next following report made by him to the
Speaker of the House of Commons pursuant
to subsection 58(3) of the Canada Elections
Act, chapter 39 of the Statutes of Canada,

**1960.** 1963, c. 40, s. 9.

## STAFF OF COMMISSIONER
1Q. (1) The Commissioner may
  * (_a_) appoint such officers and employees as
are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Office of the Commissioner;
and
(6) prescribe the duties of such officers and
employees and, subject to the approval of
the Treasury Board, prescribe the conditions
of their employment.
(2) The officers and employees of the
/-, . , j j
Commissioner appointed as provided in
subsection (1) shall be paid such salaries and
expenses as are fixed by the Commissioner
with the approval of the Treasury Board.
1963, c. 40, s. 10.

**11.** The Commissioner may engage on a
temporary basis the services of persons having
technical or specialized knowledge of any
matter relating to the work of the Commis
sioner, to advise and assist the Commissioner
in the performance of the duties of his office
and, with the approval of the Treasury Board,
may fix and pay the remuneration and
expenses of such persons. 1963, c. 40, s. 11.

**12.** The Commissioner and the officers and
employees of the Commissioner appointed as
provided in subsection 10(1) shall be deemed
to be persons employed in the Public Service
for the purposes of the Public Service
Superannuation Act. 1963, c. 40, s. 12.
FINANCIAL

**13.** All amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses under this Act
Fund under the authority of this
1963, c. 40, s. 13.

**14.** The Prime Minister shall, at the earliest
convenient opportunity after the commence
ment of the first session of Parliament after
1968, propose to the House of Commons that
an order be made and referred to the
appropriate committee of the House of
Commons for the review by such committee
of the provisions of this Act and for the
recommendations of such committee with
respect to any amendments, alterations or
modifications thereto that appear to the
committee then to be necessary or desirable,
and upon such order being referred to it the
committee shall consider the matter of the
order and report to the House its recommen
dations with respect thereto. 1963, c. 40, s. 22.
