
# CHAPTER R-8
An Act respecting the Royal Canadian Mint

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Royal
Canadian Mint Act.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
Board" means the Board of Directors of the
Mint appointed under this Act;
Master" means the Master of the Mint;
Minister" means the Minister of Supply and
Services ;
Mint" means the Royal Canadian Mint
established by this Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 71.

## INCORPORATION AND OBJECTS

**3.** The Master of the Mint and such other
persons as constitute the Board of Directors
of the Mint are hereby incorporated as a body
corporate under the name of the Royal
Canadian Mint with the objects of minting
coins in anticipation of profit and carrying
out other related activities. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 72.

## CORPORATE POWERS
4, (j) T ne Mint may, as ancillary and
incidental to its objects, exercise any or all of
the following powers, namely the power
  * (_a_) to produce and arrange for the produc
tion and supply of coins of the currency of
Canada ;
(6) to produce coins of the currency of
countries other than Canada ;
  * (_c_) to melt, assay and refine gold, silver
and other metals ;
  * (_d_) to buy and sell gold, silver and other
metals ;
  * (_e_) to assay, refine, store and otherwise deal
with gold, silver and other metals for the
account of Her Majesty or others ;
(/) to prepare and store shipments of coin,
gold, silver and other metals and to move
such shipments to or from the Mint ;
  * (_g_) to make medals, plaques and other
devices; and
  * (_h_) to do all such other things as are
incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the objects and the exercise of the powers
of the Mint.
(2) In addition to the powers under section
20 of the Interpretation Act, the Mint may
  * (_a_) acquire and hold real property or any
interest therein and alienate the same at
pleasure ;
(6) enter into contracts in its own name or
in the name of Her Majesty ; and
  * (_c_) make grants in lieu of taxes to any
municipality in Canada in amounts not
exceeding the taxes that might be levied by
that municipality in respect of real property
under the control, management or adminis
tration of the Mint if the Mint were not an
agent of Her Majesty. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 73.

**5.** (1) The Mint is for all purposes an agent
of Her Majesty and its powers may be
exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) Property acquired or held by the Mint
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Mint.
(3) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Mint on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Mint in the name of the Mint
in any court that would have jurisdiction if
the Mint were not an agent of Her Majesty.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 74.

**6.** The Board shall, in carrying out the
objects and exercising the powers of the Mint
under this Act, comply with and be governed
by any directions that are from time to time
given by the Governor in Council. 1968-69, c.
28, s. 75.

## HEAD OFFICE

**7.** Tli e head office of the Mint shall be in
the National Capital Region described in the
schedule to the National Capital Act. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 76.

## COINS OF CANADA

**8.** (1) All coins of the currency of Canada
that are produced at or supplied by the Mint
shall be delivered to the Minister of Finance
or such person as he may designate.
(2) The Mint shall comply with such
instructions as the Minister of Finance may
give as to the storage of coins of the currency
of Canada or the preparation and movement
of shipments of coins of the currency of
Canada to or from the Mint.
(3) Payments for the production, storage,
preparation or movement of coins of the
currency of Canada and for the redemption
of coins of the currency of Canada shall be
made out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund
on the authorization of the Minister of
Finance.
(4) Where the Mint deals with gold, silver
or other metals for the account of Her
Majesty, payments for the purchase thereof
shall be made out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund on the authorization of the
Minister of Finance and all amounts received
from the sale thereof shall be paid into the
Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(5) All amounts received from the issue, for
circulation in Canada, of coins of the currency
of Canada shall be paid into the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.
(6) On such terms and conditions as are
approved by the Treasury Board the Minister
of Finance may, with respect to the changes
in composition of subsidiary coins proclaimed
in force on August 1, 1968 pursuant to the
Currency, Mint and Exchange Fund Act,
chapter 315 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
1952, pay compensation, out of the amounts
received from the issue of coins for circulation
in Canada, to the owners of coin vending
machines or their agents in respect of any
purchase or modification of coin selectors for
such vending machines required as a result of
those changes in composition. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 77.

## MASTER AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS

**9.** (1) The Board of Directors of the Mint
shall consist of a Chairman, the Master of the
Mint and five other directors.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the directors,
other than the Chairman and the Master of
the Mint, shall be appointed by the Governor
in Council to hold office during the following
terms :
  * (_a_) one director to hold office for one year,
(6) two directors to hold office for two
years, and
  * (_c_) two directors to hold office for three
years,
and the Governor in Council shall, on the
expiration of the terms of office of the
directors so appointed and at intervals of
three years thereafter, appoint a correspond
ing number of directors to hold office for a
term of three years.
(3) The directors, other than the Chairman
and the Master of the Mint, shall be appointed
as follows :
  * (_a_) one director from the public service of
Canada upon the recommendation of the
Minister of Finance ;
  * (_b_) one director from the public service of
Canada upon the recommendation of the
Minister; and
  * (_c_) three directors from outside the public
service of Canada upon the recommendation
of the Minister.
(4) No person shall be appointed a director
from outside the public service of Canada
who does not have experience in the field of
metal fabrication or production, industrial
relations or a related field.
(5) The Chairman of the Board shall be
appointed from the public service of Canada
by the Governor in Council upon the
recommendation of the Minister for a term of
four years and may, on the expiration of his
term of office, be re-appointed to the Board
in the same or another capacity.
(6) The Master of the Mint shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council upon
the recommendation of the Board, to hold
office during pleasure, and shall be paid such
salary as is fixed by the Governor in Council.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 78.

**10.** (1) A person is not eligible to be
appointed or to continue as a director of the
Mint if he is not a Canadian citizen ordinarily
resident in Canada or if, directly or indirectly,
he is engaged in any undertaking involving
or associated with
  * (_a_) the production or distribution of copper,
copper alloy, nickel or precious metals;
(6) the purchase, production, distribution
or sale of coins or coin operated devices ; or
  * (_c_) the vending of goods and services by
means of coin operated devices.
(2) Where any interest prohibited in sub
section (1) vests in a director by will or
succession for his own benefit, he shall, within
three months thereafter, absolutely dispose of
such interest. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 79.

**11.** The Governor in Council may, upon
such terms and conditions as he may prescribe,
appoint a temporary substitute director if a
director of the Mint other than the Master is
unable at any time to perform the duties of
his office by reason of absence or incapacity.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 80.

**12.** (1) The Master is the chief executive
officer of the Mint and shall devote the whole
of his time to the business of the Mint.
(2) The Board may authorize one of its
directors or an officer of the Mint to act as
Master of the Mint in the event that the
Master is absent or incapacitated or if the
office of Master is vacant but no person so
authorized shall act as Master of the Mint for
a period exceeding sixty days without the
approval of the Governor in Council. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 81.

**13.** (1) A director on the expiration of his
term of office is eligible for re-appointment
to the Board in the same or another capacity.
(2) Where the office of a director becomes
vacant during the term of the director
appointed thereto, the Governor in Council
may appoint a director for the remainder of
that term.
(3) The remuneration of any director who
is not a person employed in the public service
of Canada shall be fixed by the Governor in
Council.
(4) Each director is entitled to be paid by
the Mint such travelling and other expenses
incurred by him while absent from his
ordinary place of residence in the course of
his duties under this Act as may be fixed by
by-law of the Mint. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 82.
BY-LAWS

**14.** The Board may, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, make by-laws
respecting
  * (_a_) the duties and conduct of officers,
agents and employees of the Mint ;
(6) the conditions of employment and the
fixing of the remuneration of officers,
agents and employees of the Mint ;
  * (_c_) the time and place for the holding of
meetings of the Board, the quorum at such
meetings and the procedure in all business
at such meetings ; and
  * (_d_) generally the conduct and management
of the affairs of the Mint. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 83.

## STAFF OF THE MINT

**15.** (1) The Mint may appoint such offi
cers, agents and employees as are necessary
for the proper conduct of the work of the
Mint.
(2) The remuneration of officers, agents
and employees of the Mint shall be a charge
against the revenues of the Mint. 1968-69, c.
28, s. 84.

**16.** (1) The Master, officers and employees
of the Mint are not part of the public service
of Canada but shall be deemed to be employed
in the public service of Canada for the
purposes of the Government Employees Com
pensation Act and any regulations made
pursuant to section 7 of the Aeronautics Act.
(2) The Master, officers and employees of
the Mint shall be deemed to be employed in
the Public Service for the purposes of the
Public Service Superannuation Act, and the
Mint shall be deemed to be a Public Service
corporation for the purposes of that Act.
(3) An} r collective agreement affecting offi
cers and employees of the Mint entered into
before the 1st day of April 1969 remains in
force and binds the Mint as employer of such
officers and employees until the expiry of
that agreement and the Public Service Staff
Relations Act continues to apply during the
term of that agreement.
(4) No collective agreement entered into by
the Mint with its employees pursuant to Part
V of the Canada Labour Code shall prohibit
or limit the power of the Mint to enter into
contracts with any person to provide for the
procurement by the Mint of any goods or
services from or the minting of coins by that
person. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 85.

## FINANCIAL

**17.** (1) There shall be established in the
Consolidated Revenue Fund a special account
to be known as the Royal Canadian Mint
Account, in this Act called the "Account".
(2) There shall be credited to the Account
  * (_a_) all loans made to the Mint by the
Minister of Finance pursuant to sections 18
and 19; and
(6) all other moneys received by or for the
Mint on its own account.
(3) There shall be charged to the Account
  * (_a_) all expenditures under this Act by or
for the Mint on its own account ;
(6) all amounts paid to the Minister of
Finance in repayment of loans made to the
Mint pursuant to sections 18 and 19 or as
interest on such loans ; and
  * (_c_) all amounts applied to revenues of
Canada as provided in subsection 21(3).
(4) No payment shall be made out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund under this
section in excess of the amount of the balance
to the credit of the Account. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**86.**

**18.** (1) At the request of the Mint and on
the recommendation of the Minister, the
Minister of Finance may, out of the Con
solidated Revenue Fund, make loans to the
Mint on such terms and conditions as are
approved by the Governor in Council for the
purposes of
  * (_a_) meeting establishment and operating
expenses of the Mint, in amounts not
exceeding in the aggregate five million
dollars ; and
(6) financing the costs of capital projects
that are approved by the Governor in
Council.
(2) The total amount outstanding at any
time of loans made under subsection (1) shall
not exceed thirty-five million dollars. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 87.

**19.** (1) At the request of the Mint and on
the recommendation of the Minister, the
Minister of Finance may, out of the Con
solidated Revenue Fund, make loans to the
Mint for temporary purposes on such terms
and conditions as are approved by the
Governor in Council.
(2) The aggregate of all amounts loaned to
the Mint under subsection (1) and outstanding
at any time shall not exceed one million
dollars.
(3) A loan made pursuant to subsection (1)
be repaid within twelve months from
day on which the loan is made. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 88.

**20.** The Mint shall execute and deliver to
the Minister of Finance, in such form as he
may approve, certificates evidencing its
indebtedness in respect of any loans made to
the Mint under this Act and the terms and
conditions under which those loans were
made. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 89.
2 1. (1) The Mint may make provision from
profits for a reserve against possible losses but
the aggregate amount in the reserve at any
one time shall not exceed one million dollars.
(2) Where in its operations the Mint incurs
a loss that cannot be met by a charge to the
reserve referred to in subsection (1), that loss
shall be a charge against future profits of the
Mint.
(3) The profits of the Mint in any calendar
year shall be applied
  * (_a_) firstly, to any loss referred to in
subsection (2), and
(6) secondly, to the reserve referred to in
subsection (1),
and any profits in excess of those applied
under paragraphs (a) and (6) shall be applied
to the revenues of Canada. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 90.

**22.** The Mint shall be deemed, for the
purposes of the Crown Corporations (Provincial
Taxes and Fees) Act, to be listed in the
schedule to that Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 91.

**23.** The Surplus Crown Assets Act does not
apply to the Mint or to the property of the
Mint. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 92.

## GENERAL

**24.** (1) All accounts of the Mint are subject
to the audit of the Auditor General of
Canada.
(2) The Auditor General shall inspect the
inventories of stores and metals of the Mint
at least once in each year. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 93.

**25.** The Mint shall annually submit to the
Minister a capital budget for the next
following financial year of the Mint for the
approval of the Minister, the President of the
Treasury Board and the Minister of Finance,
1968-69, c. 28, s. 94.
