
# CHAPTER R-9
An Act respecting the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Act. 1959, c. 54, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police ;
"force" means the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police ;
"member" means a member of the force ;
"Minister" means the Solicitor General of
Canada ;
"officer" means a commissioned officer of the
force. 1959, c. 54, s. 2 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 37.

## PARTI

## CONSTITUTION AND ORGANIZATION
Composition of Force

**3.** There shall continue to be a police force
for Canada, which shall consist of officers and
other members and be known as the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police. 1959, c. 54, s. 3.

**4.** The force may be employed in such
within or outside Canada as the
in Council prescribes. 1959, c. 54, s.
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who,
under the direction of the Minister, has the
control and management of the force and all
matters connected therewith. 1959, c. 54, s. 5.
Officers

**6.** (1) The officers of the force, in addition
to the Commissioner, shall consist of
  * (_a_) Deputy Commissioners,
  * (_b_) Assistant Commissioners,
  * (_c_) Chief Superintendents,
  * (_d_) Superintendents,
  * (_e_) Inspectors,
(/) Sub-Inspectors,
and such other ranks as are prescribed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) The maximum number of officers in
each rank shall be as prescribed by the
Treasury Board.
(3) The Governor in Council may
  * (_a_) appoint persons to be officers,
  * (_b_) authorize the issue of a commission
under the Great Seal to an officer upon his
first appointment to the rank of an officer,
and
  * (_c_) by way of promotion appoint officers to
higher ranks. 1959, c. 54, s. 6.
Other Members

**7.** (1) The Commissioner shall appoint the
members of the force other than officers, for
permanent or temporary duty.
(2) The ranks and grades of members other
than officers, and the maximum numbers of
persons to be appointed to each rank and
grade shall be as prescribed by the Treasury
Board.
(3) The Commissioner may authorize any
officer to make appointments under subsection
(1) on behalf of the Commissioner.
(4) The Commissioner may appoint any
member and any special constable appointed

**8.** A certificate purporting to be issued by
or under authority of the Commissioner and
stating that the person to whom it is issued is
a member of the force or that he is a peace
officer appointed under this Act is evidence
in all courts and in all proceedings of the
facts stated therein. 1959, c. 54, s. 8.
Financial Comptroller

**9.** The Governor in Council may appoint
and fix the salary and prescribe the duties of
a Financial Comptroller of the force. 1959, c.
54,s.9.
Supernumerary Special Constables

**10.** The Commissioner may appoint with
out pay special constables supernumerary to
the strength of the force for a period not
exceeding twelve months at any one time for
the purpose of maintaining law and order at
the request of any department of the
Government of Canada or in any case in
which the Commissioner considers it necessary
or in the public interest, but such special
constables are not entitled to any pecuniary
privilege or benefit under this Act and such
appointment may be revoked by the Com
missioner at any time. 1959, c. 54, s. 10.
Civilian Staff
n. (i) Subject to subsection (2), such
civilian officials, clerks and employees as are
necessary for carrying out the functions and
duties of the force shall be appointed or
employed under the Public Service Employment
Act.
(2) The Commissioner may employ such
number of temporary civilian employees at
such remuneration and upon such other terms
and conditions as are prescribed by the
Treasury Board, and may at any time dismiss
or discharge any such employee.
(3) A person appointed or employed under
the authority of this section is not a member
of the force. 1959, c. 54, s. 11.
Reserve

**12.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
providing for the establishment
of a Royal Canadian Mounted Police Reserve,
for the appointment of members and officers
thereof and for defining their powers, duties
and functions.
(2) Except as provided by the regulations
made under subsection (1), this Part does not
apply to a member of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police Reserve. 1959, c. 54, s. 12.
Tenure of Office of Members

**13.** (1) Officers of the force hold office
during the pleasure of the Governor in
Council.
(2) Unless appointed for temporary duty,
every member other than an officer shall
upon appointment sign articles of engagement
for a term of service not exceeding five years,
but any such member may be dismissed or
discharged by the Commissioner at any time
before the expiration of his term of engage
ment. 1959, c. 54, s. 13.
Headquarters

**14.** The headquarters of the force and the
offices of the Commissioner shall be at
Ottawa. 1959, c. 54, s. 14.
Oath of Office

**15.** (1) Every member of the force shall,
before entering upon the duties of his office,
take the oath of allegiance and an oath of
office in the following form :
I, A.B., solemnly swear that I will faithfully, diligently
and impartially execute and perform the duties required
of me as a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police, and will well and truly obey and perform all lawful
orders and instructions that I receive as such, without fear,
favour or affection of or toward any person. So help me
God.
(2) The oaths prescribed by subsection (1),
and any other oath or declaration that may
be necessary or required, may be taken by the
Commissioner before any judge, magistrate
or justice of the peace having jurisdiction in
any part of Canada, and by any other member
of the force before the Commissioner or any
or any person having authority to
oaths or affidavits. 1959, c. 54, s.

**15.**
Absence, etc., of Commissioner

**16.** (1) In the event that the Commissioner
is absent or unable to act or the office is
vacant, the senior Deputy Commissioner at
the headquarters of the force has, for the time
being, the control and management of the
force and all matters connected therewith,
and for such purposes he may exercise all the
powers of the Commissioner under this or any
other Act.
(2) In the event that the Commissioner and
all the Deputy Commissioners are absent or
unable to act or the offices are vacant, the
senior Assistant Commissioner at the head
quarters of the force has, for the time being,
the control and management of the force and
all matters connected therewith, and for such
purposes he may exercise all of the powers of
the Commissioner under this or any other
Act. 1959, c. 54, s. 16.
Justices and Peace Officers

**17.** (1) The Commissioner, and every
Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commis
sioner and Chief Superintendent, is ex officio
a justice of the peace having all the powers
of two justices of the peace.
(2) Every Superintendent and every other
officer designated by the Governor in Council
is ex officio a justice of the peace.
(3) Every officer, and every person appoint
ed by the Commissioner under this Act to be
a peace officer, is a peace officer in every part
of Canada and has all the powers, authority,
protection and privileges that a peace officer
has by law.
(4) Every officer, and every member
appointed by the Commissioner to be a peace
officer, has, with respect to the revenue laws
of Canada, all the rights, privileges and
immunities of a customs and excise officer,
including authority to make seizures of goods
for infraction of revenue laws and to lay
informations in proceedings brought for the
of penalties therefor. 1959, c. 54, s.

**17.**
Duties

**18.** It is the duty of members of the force
who are peace officers, subject to the orders
of the Commissioner,
  * (_a_) to perform all duties that are assigned
to peace officers in relation to the preser
vation of the peace, the prevention of crime,
and of offences against the laws of Canada
and the laws in force in any province in
which they may be employed, and the
apprehension of criminals and offenders
and others who may be lawfully taken into
custody ;
(6) to execute all warrants, and perform all
duties and services in relation thereto, that
may, under this Act or the laws of Canada
or the laws in force in any province, be
lawfully executed and performed by peace
officers ;
  * (_c_) to perform all duties that may be
lawfully performed by peace officers in
relation to the escort and conveyance of
convicts and other persons in custody to or
from any courts, places of punishment or
confinement, asylums or other places; and
  * (_d_) to perform such other duties and
functions as are prescribed by the Governor
in Council or the Commissioner. 1959, c. 54,
s. 18.

**19.** Unless authorized by the Governor in
Council, members shall not be charged with
any duties under or in connection with any
municipal by-laws. 1959, c. 54, s. 19.

**20.** (1) The Minister may, with the approv
al of the Governor in Council, enter into
arrangements with the government of any
province or, with the approval of the
governor in council of any province,
any municipality in the province, for
the use or employment of the force, or any
thereof, in aiding the administration
of justice in the province or municipality, and
in carrying into effect the laws in force
therein ; and may, with the approval of the
Treasury Board, in any such arrangement,
agree upon and determine the amount of
money that shall be paid by the province or
municipality for the services of the force.
(2) There may be included in any arrange
ments made under subsection (1) provision for
the taking over by the force of officers and
men of any provincial or municipal police
force.
(3) The Minister shall lay before Parliament
a copy of every arrangement made under
subsection (1) within fifteen days after it is
made or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on
any of the first fifteen days next thereafter
that Parliament is sitting. 1959, c. 54, s. 20.
Regulations and Standing Orders

**21.** (1) The Governor in Council may make
regulations for the organization, training,
discipline, efficiency, administration and good
government of the force and generally for
carrying the purposes and provisions of this
Act into effect.
(2) Subject to this Act and the regulations
made under subsection (1), the Commissioner
may make rules, to be known as standing
orders, for the organization, training, disci
pline, efficiency, administration and good
government of the force. 1959, c. 54, s. 21.
Pay and Allowances

**22.** (1) The Treasury Board shall establish
the pay and allowances to be paid to the
members of the force.
(2) No pay or allowances shall be paid to
any member in respect of any period during
which he is serving a sentence of imprisonment.
(3) The Treasury Board may make regula
tions respecting the stoppage of pay and
allowances of members who are suspended
from duty. 1959, c. 54, s. 22.
Benefit Trust Fund

**23.** (1) Notwithstanding any other Act, all
fines and the proceeds of all forfeitures and
and all portions of any fine and of
any forfeiture or seizure that may be awarded
or adjudged to any member of the force in
connection with the performance of his duties,
and all gifts and bequests, if converted into
money, shall be paid to the Minister.
(2) All fees or costs that are ordinarily paid
to any member of the force and any
remuneration granted or awarded to him by
way of salary, commission or fee for duties
performed for any government or any other
organization, or any money earned by or
awarded or granted to him in connection with
the performance of his duties over and above
his regular salary or pay and allowances as a
member of the force, shall be paid to the
Minister, except cases in which the Minister
may from time to time otherwise direct.
(3) The money paid to the Minister pur
suant to this section shall be used or paid to
the Benefit Trust Fund as constituted immedi
ately before the 1st day of April 1960 and
shall be used
  * (_a_) for the benefit of members and former
members and their dependants as the
Governor in Council may prescribe ;
  * (_b_) for the making of loans to members of
the force ; and
  * (_c_) as a reward, grant or compensation to
any person who assists the force in the
performance of its duties in any case where
the Minister is of opinion that such person
is deserving of recognition for the service
rendered.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
any regulations deemed by him necessary or
convenient for the management and adminis
tration of any money paid to the Minister
pursuant to this section and for the making
and management of any loans made pursuant
to subsection (3). 1959, c. 54, s. 23.
Disposition of Property

**24.** Where it appears to the Commissioner
  * (_a_) that any personal property that has, in
the Yukon Territory or the Northwest
Territories, come into the hands of any
member in the course of his duties has been
abandoned by the owner thereof or the
person entitled thereto, or
  * (_b_) that a reasonable attempt has been
made to find the owner of or person entitled
to any personal property that has, in the
Yukon Territory or the Northwest Territo
ries, come into the hands of any member in
the course of his duties, but he cannot be
found,
the Commissioner may make such disposition
of the property as he in the circumstances
deems fit, but the proceeds, if any, from the
sale or other disposition of such property, and
any such property consisting of money, shall
be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
1959, c. 54, s. 24.

## PART II

## DISCIPLINE
Offences

**25.** Every member who
  * (_a_) disobeys or refuses to obey the lawful
command of, or strikes or threatens to
strike, any other member who is his superior
in rank or is in authority over him ;
  * (_b_) abuses or maltreats any other member
who is his inferior in rank or over whom he
is in authority ;
  * (_c_) conducts himself by word or act in a
traitorous or disloyal manner in respect of
Her Majesty ;
  * (_d_) directly or indirectly receives or solicits
any gratuity or reward without permission
of the Commissioner, or any bribe ;
  * (_e_) wears the emblem, mark or insignia of
any political party or in any way manifests
political partisanship ;
(/) overholds any complaint ;
  * (_g_) conducts himself by word or act in a
mutinous or insubordinate manner ;
  * (_h_) fails to account for, improperly with
holds, misappropriates or misapplies any
public money or property, any money or
property levied under execution or taken
from any prisoner, or any property not
being his own and coming into his possession
in the course of his duty or by reason of his
being a member of the force ;
  * (_i_) divulges any matter or thing that it is
his duty to keep secret ;
0) makes an anonymous complaint to the
Commissioner or to the Government of
Canada or any province or any department
thereof, or to any Minister of the Crown or
member of Parliament or a provincial
legislature ;
  * (_k_) wilfully or through negligence or con
nivance allows a prisoner to escape ;
(0 is cruel, harsh or unnecessarily violent
to any prisoner or other person ;
  * (_m_) leaves any post on which he has been
placed as sentry, guard or escort, or is asleep
while on such duty ;
  * (_n_) deserts or absents himself from duty or
quarters without leave ;
  * (_o_) conducts himself in a scandalous, infa
mous, disgraceful, profane or immoral
manner ; or
  * (_p_) attempts to commit, or aids, abets,
counsels or procures any other person to
commit any act specified in this section,
is guilty of an offence, to be known as a major
service offence, and is liable to trial and
punishment as prescribed in this Part. 1959, c.
54, s. 25.

**26.** Every member who violates or fails to
comply with any standing order of the
Commissioner or any regulation made under
the authority of Part I is guilty of an offence,
to be known as a minor service offence, and
is liable to trial and punishment as prescribed
in this Part. 1959, c. 54, s. 26.

**27.** (1) Every member who has committed,
is found committing, or is suspected of or
charged under this Part with having commit
ted a service offence may be placed under
arrest, open arrest or suspension
  * (_a_) by any other member of higher rank, or
  * (_b_) if he is not a peace officer, by any
member who is a peace officer.
(2) Every person authorized to effect arrest
under this section may use such force as is
necessary for that purpose. 1959,
54, s. 27.
Custody

**28.** (1) A member arrested under the
authority of this Part may be placed in
custody, and, subject to this Part and any
orders of the Commissioner, may be held in
custody until he is tried under this Part for
the offence in respect of which he was placed
under arrest.
(2) Where a member who has been placed
under arrest for a service offence has been in
custody for a period of eight days without a
trial having been held, a report stating the
necessity for a further delay shall be made by
his commanding officer to the Commissioner,
and a similar report shall be made to the
Commissioner every eighth day thereafter
until a trial has been held.
(3) Every member who has been placed
under arrest for a service offence and has
been in custody for a total of thirty days from
the time of his arrest without a trial having
been held shall be released from custody
unless the Minister otherwise directs. 1959, c.
54, s. 28.
Service Tribunals

**29.** Any officer may try any officer of
lower rank or any member other than an
officer for a minor service offence. 1959, c. 54,
s. 29.

**30.** Any officer who is appointed by the
Commissioner under section 32 for the purpose
may try any officer of lower rank or any
member for a major service offence. 1959, c.
54, s. 30.
Investigation and Charge

**31.** Whenever it appears to an officer or to
a member in charge of a detachment or detail
that a service offence has been committed, he
shall make or cause to be made such
investigation as he considers necessary, and
for the purposes of any such examination an
officer may examine any person on oath or
affirmation, and may compel the attendance
of witnesses in the same manner as if the
to summary convictions. 1959, c. 54,

**31.**

**32.** (1) Where it appears to an officer that
a member has committed a minor service
offence and that he ought to be tried for the
offence, the officer shall cause a written
charge to be prepared and served on the
member.
(2) Where, as a result of an investigation
under section 31, it appears to an officer that
a member has committed a major service
offence, a report shall be made to the
Commissioner and if, in the opinion of the
Commissioner, the member ought to be tried
for the offence, he shall direct that a written
charge be prepared and served on the member,
and the Commissioner shall in his direction
appoint the officer who is to preside at the
trial. 1959, c. 54, s. 32.

**33.** A written charge may allege more than
one offence and shall contain
  * (_a_) a separate statement of each offence of
which the accused is charged ;
(6) a statement of the particulars of the act,
omission, conduct, disorder or neglect
constituting each offence ; and
  * (_c_) a statement of the place of trial and the
date and time thereof, which shall be not
less than forty-eight hours after service of
the charge on the accused. 1959, c. 54, s. 33.
Trial

**34.** (1) At the time and place appointed in
the written charge, the accused shall be
brought before the officer who is to try the
offence.
(2) The accused may plead guilty or not
guilty, and where he refuses to plead, he shall
be deemed to have pleaded not guilty.
(3) An accused may be represented and
assisted at his trial by another member and if
the accused requests that he be so represented
and assisted, his request shall be granted.
(4) An accused is not compelled to testify
at his trial, but he may give evidence under
oath ; an accused who has not given evidence
under oath shall, at the conclusion of the case
for the prosecution, be given an opportunity
of making a statement to the presiding officer.
(5) An accused may call witnesses on his
own behalf and may cross-examine any
witnesses called for the prosecution.
(6) The rules of evidence at a trial under
this Part shall be the same as those followed
in proceedings under the Criminal Code in the
courts in the province in which the trial is
held, or, if the trial is held outside Canada,
in the courts of Ontario.
(7) The officer presiding at the trial shall
cause the evidence of the witnesses to be
taken down and transcribed. 1959, c. 54, s. 34.
Punishment

**35.** If the presiding officer is satisfied on
the evidence submitted at the trial that the
accused is guilty of an offence as charged, he
shall so find, and the presiding officer may
sentence the accused to punishment as
prescribed in this Part. 1959, c. 54, s. 35.

**36.** (1) Any one or more of the following
punishments may be imposed in respect of a
major service offence :
  * (_a_) imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year ;
(6) a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ;
  * (_c_) loss of pay for a period not exceeding
thirty days ;
  * (_d_) reduction in rank ;
  * (_e_) loss of seniority ; or
  * (_f_) reprimand.
(2) Any one or more of the following
punishments may be imposed in respect of a
minor service offence :
  * (_a_) confinement to barracks for a period
not exceeding thirty days ;
(6) if pursuant to section 38 the convicting
officer recommends dismissal, a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars ;
  * (_c_) a fine not exceeding fifty dollars;
  * (_d_) loss of seniority ; or
  * (_e_) reprimand.
(3) Where a person is found guilty of two
or more offences alleged in one written charge,
the total punishments imposed in respect of
all offences shall not exceed any of the
maximum punishments prescribed by this
section for one offence. 1959, c. 54, s. 36.

**37.** (1) Where a member by the commission
of a service offence has caused any injury to
the person or any damage to or loss of
property, the officer presiding at the trial
may, as additional punishment, order the
convicted member to pay the persons entitled
thereto such amount by way of damages or
restitution, but not exceeding one thousand
dollars, as the officer may determine.
(2) Where under this Part a fine has been
imposed on any member, or a member has
been ordered to make payment of damages or
restitution, the fine, damages or restitution
may, in addition to any other mode of
recovery, be recovered out of the pay of that
member in such manner as the Commissioner
directs; and where under this section a
punishment of loss of pay has been imposed
on any member, the Commissioner shall give
such directions as are necessary to carry the
punishment into effect.
(3) Nothing in subsection (2) prejudices any
right or remedy that may exist apart from
this section against any person, including the
Crown, for any injury to the person or damage
to or loss of property in respect of which a
member is under this section ordered to make
payment of damages or restitution, but any
damages or restitution paid to any person
under this section shall to the extent thereof
be deemed to have been paid in satisfaction
or reduction, as the case may be, of the claim
of that person arising out of such injury,
damage or loss.
(4) Where a person has been convicted of a
service offence, the officer presiding at the
trial may order that any article by means of
which the offence was committed be forfeited,
and any article so ordered to be forfeited may
be disposed of as the Commissioner directs,
but any money or the proceeds of any
property shall be paid into the Consolidated
Revenue Fund. 1959, c. 54, s. 37.

**38.** A convicting officer may, if he sees fit,
recommend that the convicted member be
dismissed from the force. 1959, c. 54, s. 38.

**39.** (1) Any sentence of imprisonment
imposed under this Part shall be served in
such place of confinement as the convicting
officer or the Commissioner directs, and a
warrant of commitment issued by the convict
ing officer or the Commissioner is sufficient
authority for the confinement of the person
named therein in the place so designated in
accordance with the terms of the sentence.
(2) The Commissioner may at any time in
his discretion, on compassionate grounds,
remit all or part of the sentence of any person
who has been sentenced to imprisonment
under this Part. 1959, c. 54, s. 39.

**40.** Every member alleged to have com
mitted an offence under this Part out of
Canada may be charged, dealt with and tried
under this Part either in Canada or out of
Canada. 1959, c. 54, s. 40.
Appeal

**41.** A member who has been convicted of
an offence under this Part shall be furnished
with a written transcript of the evidence at
the trial if he so requests within forty-eight
hours after the passing of sentence and he
may within four days after the receipt of the
written transcript appeal to the Commissioner
by serving on the officer who presided at the
trial or on the member s commanding officer,
a written notice of appeal setting forth the
grounds upon which the appeal is made and
the appeal shall be proceeded with, with all
due dispatch. 1959, c. 54, s. 41.

**42.** Forthwith upon service of a notice of
appeal under section 41, the notice of appeal
together with the complete record of the trial
shall be transmitted to the Commissioner.
1959, c. 54, s. 42.

**43.** (1 ) There shall be a Board of Review
appointed by the Minister consisting of a
Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant Com
missioner, and two officers of or above the
rank of superintendent.
(2) All appeals under this Part by persons
who have been convicted of a major service
offence shall be referred by the Commissioner
to the Board of Review, which shall examine
the records and shall make its recommendation
to the Commissioner. 1959, c. 54, s. 43.

**44.** The Commissioner may,
  * (_a_) quash a conviction ;
(6) dismiss an appeal ;
  * (_c_) reduce the sentence or the amount
ordered to be paid as damages or restitution ;
or
  * (_d_) order a new trial. 1959, c. 54, s. 44.
Disposition of Fines, etc.

**45.** All pecuniary penalties imposed under
subsections 36(1) and (2) shall form a fund to
be managed by the Commissioner with the
approval of the Minister, and may be used
for the payment of rewards for good conduct
or meritorious service, for the establishment
of libraries and recreation rooms and for such
other objects for the benefit of the force as
the Minister directs. 1959, c. 54, s. 45.

## PART III

## GENERAL

**46.** Every person who has deserted from
the force and has not surrendered himself
the expiration of his period of engagement,
or, if he left Canada after the desertion and
within either of those periods, for a period of
two years after his return to Canada. 1959, c.
54, s. 46.

**47.** Every person who, by concealing the
fact of his having been dismissed from the
force, or by false or forged certificates or false
representations, obtains admission into the
force, or obtains any pay, gratuity or pension,
is guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction. 1959, c. 54, s. 47.

**48.** (1) Every person who
  * (_a_) gives or offers or promises to give to
any member of the force any bribe,
pecuniary or otherwise,
  * (_b_) makes any agreement with any member
of the force to induce him in any way to
forego his duty, or
  * (_c_) concerts or connives at any act whereby
any rule, order or regulation made under
Part I may be evaded,
is guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction.
(2) Where a person is convicted of an
offence under paragraph (l)(a), any bribe
given by him is upon the conviction forfeited
to Her Majesty in right of Canada. 1959, c.
54, s. 48.

**49.** (i) Every person is guilty of an offence
punishable i i i on summary conviction . who, i 
without the authority of the Commissioner,
uses
  * (_a_) the name of the force or any abbreviation
thereof or any words or letters likely to be
mistaken therefor,
  * (_b_) any picture or other representation of a
member of the force, or
  * (_c_) any mark, badge or insignia of the force,
in any advertising or for any business or trade
purpose, or in such a way as to represent or
imply that the force uses or approves or
endorses the use of any goods or services.
(2) Every person not being a member who,
the authority of the Commissioner,
uses any clothing, equipment, badge, medal,
ribbon, document or other thing in such a
manner as to lead to a reasonable belief that
he is a member of the force is guilty of an
offence punishable on summary conviction.
(3) Every person not being a former member
of the force who, without the authority of the
Commissioner, uses any clothing, equipment,
badge, medal, ribbon, document or other
thing in such a manner as to lead to a
reasonable belief that he was a member of the
force, is guilty of an offence punishable on
summary conviction.
(4) No proceedings in respect of an offence
under this section shall be instituted without
the consent of the Minister. 1959, c. 54, s. 49.

**50.** Every person who
  * (_a_) on being duly summoned as a witness
under Part II, makes default in attending ;
(6) being in attendance as a witness in any
trial under Part II
  * (_i_) refuses to take an oath or affirmation
required of him,
  * (_ii_) refuses to produce any document in
his power or under his control required to
be produced by him, or
  * (_iii_) refuses to answer any question that
requires an answer ;
  * (_c_) at any trial under Part II uses insulting
or threatening language or causes any
interference or disturbance ; or
  * (_d_) prints observations or uses words likely
to influence improperly the presiding officer
at any trial under Part II or witnesses
before him or to bring the proceedings into
disrepute, or in any other manner whatever
displays contempt of the proceedings,
is guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction. 1959, c. 54, s. 50.
offence under this Part is liable to a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for six months or to both. 1959,
c. 54,8.51.

**52.** No proceedings in respect of an offence
under this Part shall be instituted more than
two years after the time when the subject-
matter of the proceedings arose. 1959, c. 54, s.

**52.**

**53.** For the purpose of determining liability
in any action or other proceeding by or
against Her Majesty, a person who was at any
time a member of the force shall be deemed
to have been at such time a servant of the
Crown. 1959, c. 54, s. 53.
