CHAPTER S-l
Act to establish The St. Lawrence Seaway
Authority

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the St. Lawrence
Seaway Authority Act. U.S., c. 242, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Authority" means The St. Lawrence Seaway
Authority established by this Act ;
"canal" means a canal, lock or navigable
channel and all works and property apper
taining or incident to such canal, lock or
channel ;
"deep waterway" means adequate provision
for navigation requiring a controlling
channel depth of twenty-seven feet with a
depth of thirty feet over lock sills in general
in accordance with paragraph (j) of the
preliminary article of the Agreement
between Canada and the United States
providing for the Development of Naviga
tion and Power in the Great Lakes-St.
Lawrence Basin, dated the 19th day of
March 1941 ;
"member" means a member of the Authority;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport ;
"President" means the President of the
Authority. R.S., c. 242, s. 2.
CONSTITUTION Wi ,^ ^ ^, OF ^ ., AUTHORITY ~ . ~~

**3.** (1) There is hereby established a corpo-
called The St. Lawrence Seaway
Authority, consisting of a President and two
other members as provided in this Act.
(2) Except as provided in section 9, the
Authority is for all purposes an agent of Her
Majesty in right of Canada and its powers
under this Act may be exercised only as an
agent of Her Majesty.
(3) The Authority may, on behalf of Her
Majesty, enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Authority.
(4) Property acquired by the Authority is
the property of Her Majesty and title thereto
may be vested in the name of Her Majesty or
in the name of the Authority. R.S., c. 242,
s. 3.

**4.** Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Authority on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Authority in the name of the
Authority in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the Authority were not an
agent of Her Majesty. R.S., c. 242, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
appoint the members of the Authority to hold
office during good behaviour for a term not
exceeding ten years, who shall be paid such
salaries as may be fixed by the Governor in
Council.
(2) A member, on the expiration of his term
of office, may be re-appointed for a further
term not exceeding ten years.
(3) Where a member of the Authority is
absent or incapable for any reason of
performing the duties of his office or the
office thereof is vacant, the Governor in
Council may appoint a temporary substitute
member to hold the office upon such terms
and conditions as the Governor in Council
may prescribe. R.S., c. 242, s. 5.

**6.** The head office of the Authority shall
be at the city of Ottawa or in such other place
general direction and control of the business
of the Authority, and has such other powers
as may be conferred on him by the by-laws.
(2) During incapacity or absence for any
reason of the President or a vacancy in the
office of the President, one of the other
members designated by the Governor in
Council may exercise and perform all the
powers and functions of the President.
(3) The exercise of the powers of the
Authority is not impaired by reason of a
vacancy in its membership. R.S., c. 242, s. 7.

**8.** The Authority with the approval of the
Governor in Council may make by-laws not
inconsistent with this Act with respect to
  * (_a_) the management of the affairs of the
Authority and the conduct of its business,
and
(6) the establishment of a pension fund for
the officers and employees of the Authority
employed in a continuing capacity and for
the members, and for their dependants, and
authorizing contributions to be made to it
out of the funds of the Authority. R.S., c.
242, s. 8.

**9.** The Authority may employ such officers
and employees for such purposes and on such
terms and conditions as may be determined
by it and the officers and employees so
employed are not officers or servants of Her
Majesty. R.S., c. 242, s. 9.

## PURPOSES, CAPACITIES AND POWERS OF

## AUTHORITY
\Q, The Authority is incorporated for the
purposes of
  * (_a_) acquiring lands for and constructing,
maintaining and operating all such works
as may be necessary to provide and
maintain, either wholly in Canada or in
conjunction with works undertaken by an
appropriate authority in the United States,
a deep waterway between the Port of
Montreal and Lake Erie ;
  * (_b_) constructing, maintaining and operating
all such works in connection with such a
deep waterway as the Governor in Council
may deem necessary to fulfil any obligation
undertaken or to be undertaken by Canada
pursuant to any present or future agree
ment ;
  * (_c_) acquiring lands for, and constructing,
maintaining and operating, alone or jointly
or in conjunction with an appropriate
authority in the United States, bridges
connecting Canada with the United States
as authorized by this Act, and in connection
therewith, or as incidental thereto, acquiring
with the approval of the Governor in
Council shares or property of any bridge
company and operating and managing
bridges ; and
  * (_d_) acquiring lands for, and constructing or
otherwise acquiring, maintaining and
operating such works or other property as
the Governor in Council may deem to be
necessarily incidental to works undertaken
pursuant to this Act. R.S., c. 242, s. 10;
1956, c. ll.s. 1.

**11.** Subject to this Act, the Authority, for
the purposes set out in section 10, has the
capacities and powers of a natural person as
if it were a corporation incorporated for such
purposes by Letters Patent under the Great
Seal. R.S., c. 242, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Authority, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, may lease to any
person any lands, property or water power
held in the name of the Authority or held in
the name of Her Majesty under the control
of the Authority.
(2) The Minister of Finance shall out of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund pay to the
Authority an amount equal to the net proceeds
realized from the disposition of any property
held in the name of the Authority or held in
the name of Her Majesty under the control
of the Authority. R.S., c. 242, s. 12; 1956, c.
11,8.2.
^3. The Authority, with the approval of
the Governor in Council, may, from time to
time, borrow money from Her Majesty or
for the purposes for which it is
incorporated, but the aggregate of the amounts
borrowed under this Act and outstanding
not at any time exceed five hundred
and thirty-five million dollars. 1959, c. 9, s. 1 ;
1962, c. 18, s. 1; 1963, c. 29, s. 1.

**14.** T ne Governor in Council may entrust
. ., . ,, . ,.
to tne Authority the management and
operation of any canals or works similar or
related to the works mentioned in section 10
upon such terms and conditions as the
Governor in Council approves. R.S., c. 242, s.

**14.**

**15.** (1) The Authority may, alone or jointly
or in conjunction with the Saint Lawrence
Seaway Development Corporation of the
United States, construct, maintain and oper
ate, either
  * (_a_) a bridge over Pollys Gut in the St.
Lawrence River for the passage of pedestri
ans, vehicles, railway trains and for other
like purposes, with all necessary approaches
and facilities, from Cornwall Island in the
County of Stormont in the Province of
Ontario to Massena Point in the State of
New York, or
(6) a bridge over the south channel in the
St. Lawrence River for the passage of
pedestrians, vehicles and for other like
purposes, with all necessary approaches and
facilities, from Cornwall Island in the
County of Stormont in the Province of
Ontario to the United States mainland in
the State of New York.
(2) Construction of the bridge mentioned
in this section shall not be commenced until
the Governor in Council has approved the
plans and site thereof and the plans and site
so approved shall not be altered except with
the consent of the Governor in Council. 1956,
c. ll,s.3; 1956, c. 47, s. 1.
TOLLS

**16.** (i) The Authority may, subject to
sections 17 and 18, establish tariffs of tolls to
be charged by it with respect to
  * (_a_) vessels entering, passing through, or
leaving a canal or works under its adminis
tration ;
(6) passengers, goods or cargo carried in
such a vessel ;
  * (_c_) goods or cargo landed, shipped, tran
shipped or stored in a canal or on canal
lands under its administration;
  * (_d_) the use of any wharf, building, plant,
property or facilities under its administra
tion ;
  * (_e_) any service performed by the Authority ;
and
(/) pedestrians or vehicles entering, passing
over or leaving a bridge or highway under
its administration and passengers or goods
carried in such a vehicle.
(2) The tolls that may be charged by the
Authority pursuant to this section may be for
the use of the canals and works administered
by it as a whole or for the use of any particular
part thereof or for any particular service
rendered by the Authority.
(3) Every such tariff or amendment thereto
shall be filed with the Canadian Transport
Commission and becomes operative from the
date of such filing.
(4) Any person interested may at any time
file a complaint with the Canadian Transport
Commission that there is unjust discrimina
tion in an existing tariff and the Commission
shall thereupon consider such complaint and
make a finding thereon which shall be
reported to the Authority.
(5) Section 64 of the National Transportation
Act applies, mutatis mutandis, in the case of
every report of the Canadian Transport
Commission as if the same were a decision
made pursuant to the National Transportation
Act. R.S., c. 242, s. 15; 1956, c. 11, s. 4; 1966-
67, c. 69, s. 94.

**17.** The tolls that may be charged by the
Authority shall be fair and reasonable and
designed to provide a revenue sufficient to
defray the cost to the Authority of its
operations in carrying out the purposes for
which it is incorporated, which costs shall
include
  * (_a_) payments in respect of the interest on
amounts borrowed by the Authority to carry
out such purposes ;
(6) amounts sufficient to amortize the
principal of amounts so borrowed over a
period not exceeding fifty years ; and
  * (_c_) the cost of operating and maintaining
the canals and works under the administra
tion of the Authority, including all operat
ing costs of the Authority and such reserves
as may be approved by the Minister. R.S.,
c. 242, s. 16.

**18.** Where the works have been constructed
and are maintained and operated by the
Authority to provide, in conjunction with
works undertaken by an appropriate authority
in the United States, the deep waterway
mentioned in section 10, tolls may be
established pursuant to sections 16 and 17 or
by agreement between Canada and the United
States and, in the event of such an agreement,
shall be charged by the Authority in accord
ance with directions given by the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 242, s. 17.

## EXPROPRIATION

**19.** (1) With the prior approval of the
Governor in Council, the Authority may,
without the consent of the owner, take or
acquire lands for the purposes of this Act and,
except as otherwise provided in this section,
all the provisions of the Expropriation Act are,
mutatis mutandis, applicable to the taking,
acquisition, sale or abandonment of lands by
the Authority under this section.
(2) For the purposes of section 9 of the
Expropriation Act the plan and description
may be signed by the President of the
Authority.
(3) The Authority shall pay compensation
for lands taken or acquired under this section
or for damage to lands injuriously affected
by the construction of works erected by it and
all claims against the Authority for such
compensation may be heard and determined
in the Exchequer Court of Canada in
accordance with sections 46 to 49 of the
funds administered by it the compensation
agreed upon or adjudged by the Court to be
payable.
(5) jr or greater certainty it is hereby
declared that the Authority, acting under this
section, is a corporation empowered to take
or to use lands or any interest therein without
the consent of the owner, within the meaning
of section 35 of the Indian Act. R.S., c. 242, s.
18; 1955, c. 58, s. 1.

## REGULATIONS

**20.** (1) The Authority may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council on the
recommendation of the Minister, make regu
lations for the administration, management
and control of the works and property under
its jurisdiction including
  * (_a_) the regulation and control of vessels
navigating a canal or pertinent works;
(6) the regulation of plant, machinery or
appliances for loading or unloading vessels
in a canal ; and
  * (_c_) the seizure, detention or sale of vessels,
goods or cargo in respect of which any sum
is due for tolls and is unpaid or in respect
of which any provision of this Act or any
regulation has been violated.
(2) A person who violates a regulation is
guilty of an offence and is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars. R.S., c. 242, s. 19.

## GENERAL
2 1. The Authority shall comply with any
direction not inconsistent with this Act with
respect to the exercise of its powers or the
conduct of its business given to it by the
Governor in Council for the purpose of
ensuring compliance on the part of Canada
with any obligation of Canada to any other
nation. R.S., c. 242, s. 20.

**22.** Where, by this Act, the Authority or a
corporation incorporated pursuant to section
27 is empowered to do any act or thing jointly
or in conjunction with the Saint Lawrence
Seaway Development Corporation or other
in the United States, the Saint
Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
other authority may do, in Canada, all
acts and things as may be necessary to
it to act jointly or in conjunction with
Authority or corporation for the purposes
of this Act. 1956, c. 11, s. 5.

**23.** (1) The following provisions are appli
cable to every person employed by the
Authority who was a contributor under the
Public Service Superannuation Act immediately
prior to his employment by the Authority,
and whose employment by the Authority was
entered into with the consent of the Minister
of the department or branch of the Public
Service in which he was employed, namely:
  * (_a_) if that person is retired from employ
ment by the Authority for a reason other
than misconduct, and if before his employ
ment by the Authority he was employed in
a position to which the Civil Service Act or
the Public Service Employment Act applied,
he may be appointed to a position to which
the Public Service Employment Act applies
of a class not lower than the position in
which he was so employed ; and
  * (_b_) if that person is retired from employ
ment by the Authority for a reason other
than misconduct, and if before his employ
ment by the Authority he was employed in
a position in the Public Service to which
the Civil Service Act or the Public Service
Employment Act did not apply, he may be
appointed to a position in the public service
of Canada to which the Public Service
Employment Act does not apply of a class
not lower than the class in which he was so
employed.
(2) The Government Employees Compensa-
izon Act applies to officers and servants of the
Authority and, notwithstanding section 9, for
the purposes of that Act, but not otherwise,
such officers and servants shall be deemed to
be employees in the service of Her Majesty.
R.S., c. 242, s. 21 ; 1953-54, c. 44, s. 5.

**24.** (1) The Navigable Waters Protection Act
does not apply to works undertaken pursuant
to this Act.
(2) Any work constructed in accordance
with this Act is a lawful work notwithstanding
that it interferes with navigation. 1956, c. 11,
s. 6.

**25.** Notwithstanding that the Authority is
an agent of Her Majesty, it may enter into
contracts with Her Majesty. R.S., c. 242, s. 23.

**26.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Authority shall be audited by the
Auditor General of Canada. R.S., c. 242, s. 24.

**27.** (1) The Authority may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, procure
the incorporation of any one or more
corporations for the purpose of undertaking
or carrying out any acts or things that the
Authority is authorized to undertake or carry
out under this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this section, upon
the request of the Authority, the Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs may, by
letters patent under his seal of office, grant a
charter under Part I of the Canada Corpora
tions Act constituting such persons as are
named by the Authority and any others who
may thereafter be appointed by the Authority
in their stead or in addition thereto a
corporation for any purpose mentioned in
subsection (1).
(3) The Authority may remove any mem
bers, directors or officers of a corporation
incorporated under this section at any time
and may appoint others in their stead, or
may appoint additional persons as members.
(4) Subsection 3(2) and sections 4, 9, 16, 17,
23, 25 and 26 apply mutatis mutandis in respect
of a corporation incorporated pursuant to this
section as though the corporation were the
Authority. 1956, c. 11, s. 7; 1966-67, c. 25, s.
45; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 13.

## LOANS AND GUARANTEES BY CROWN

**28.** (1) The Minister of Finance, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, may,
from time to time,
  * (_a_) make loans to the Authority out of
money in the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
or
(6) guarantee repayment of the principal
of and interest on money borrowed by the
Authority ;
but no such loans or guarantees shall be made
or given in any fiscal year except to the
extent that Parliament has authorized such
loans and guarantees to be made or given in
that year.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Min
ister of Finance, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, may, from time to time,
  * (_a_) make loans to the Authority out of
money in the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
or
(6) guarantee repayment of the principal
of and interest on money borrowed by the
Authority,
for the purpose of repaying money that has
been borrowed under this Act.
(3) A loan or guarantee under this section
shall be made or given in such manner and
subject to such terms and conditions as the
Governor in Council approves. R.S., c. 242, s.

**25.**

**29.** (1) The Minister of Finance, at the
request of the Minister, and with the approval
of the Governor in Council, may, from time
to time, make temporary loans to the
Authority out of money in the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.
(2) The aggregate amount of loans out
standing under this section shall not at any
time exceed ten million dollars.
(3) A loan under this section is subject to
such terms and conditions as the Governor in
Council approves and is repayable within a
period not exceeding twelve months from the
day on which the loan was made.
(4) A report of every loan to the Authority
under this section shall be laid by the Minister
of Finance before Parliament within fifteen
days after it is made, or, if Parliament is not
then in session, within fifteen days after the
commencement of the next ensuing session.
R.S., c. 242, s. 26.

**30.** (1) The Minister of Finance, with the
of the Minister, may direct that
money borrowed by the Authority under this
Act shall be deposited in the Consolidated
Revenue Fund to be placed to the credit of a
special account in the name of the Authority.
(2) The Minister of Finance may, upon
application by the Authority approved by the
Minister, pay out to or for the purposes of
the Authority, all or any part of the money
in the special account established under
subsection (1). R.S., c. 242, s. 27.

## SAVING CLAUSE
3 j. Nothing in this Act affects the opera-
^ ^ e International Boundary Waters
Treaty Act. R.S., c. 242, s. 28.
