the Senate Act. R.S., c. 255, s. 1.

**2.** Whenever the Speaker of the Senate,
from illness or other cause, finds it necessary
to leave the chair during any part of the
sittings of the Senate on any day, he may
call upon any senator to take the chair and
préside as Speaker during the remainder of
such day, unless he himself résumes the chair
before the close of the sittings for that day.
R.S., c. 255, s. 2.

**3.** Whenever the Senate is informed by the
Clerk at the table of the unavoidable absence
of the Speaker, the Senate may choose any
senator to préside as the Speaker during such
absence, and such senator thereupon has and
shall exécute ail the powers, privilèges and
duties of Speaker, until the Speaker himself
résumes the chair, or another Speaker is
appoint ed by the Governor General. R.S., c.
255, s. 3.

**4.** Every act done by any senator, acting
as aforesaid, has the same effect and validity
as if the act had been done by the Speaker
himself. R.S., c. 255, s. 4.
