of State Act. R.S.,c. 77, s. 1.

**2.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of the Secretary of State of Canada over
which the Secretary of State of Canada
appointed by commission under the Great
Seal shall préside.
(2) The Secretary of State has the manage-
ment and direction of the Department and
holds office during pleasure. R.S., c. 77, s. 2.

**3.** The Governor in Council may also
appoint an officer called the Under Secretary
of State to hold office during pleasure. R.S.,
c. 77, s. 3.

**4.** The duties, powers and functions of the
Secretary of State of Canada extend to and
include ail matters over which the Parliament
of Canada has jurisdiction, not by law
assigned to any other department, branch or
agency of the Government of Canada, relating
to
  * (_a_) citizenship ;
(6) élections;
  * (_c_) State cérémonial, the conduct of State
correspondence and the custody of State
records and documents ;
  * (_d_) the encouragement of the literary.visual
and performing arts, learning and cultural
activities; and
  * (_e_) libraries, archives, historical resources,
muséums, galleries, théâtres, films and
broadcasting. 1966-67, c. 25, s. 34; 1967-68,
c. 21, s. 24.

**5.** The Governor in Council may, at any
time, assign any of the duties and powers
hereby assigned to and vested in the Secretary
of State of Canada to the head of any other
department, and from the period appointed
for that purpose by any order in council such
duties and powers shall be transferred to and
vested in the head of such other department.
R.S., c. 77, s. 7.

**6.** The Secretary of State shall annually
lay before Parliament, within ten days after
the meeting thereof, a report of the proceed-
ings, transactions and affairs of the Depart-
ment during the year then next preceding.
R.S.,c. 77,8.8.
