
## CHAPTER S- 16
Act respecting the Dominion Bureau of
Statistics

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Statistics
Act. R.S., c. 257, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Bureau" means the Dominion Bureau of
Statistics ;
"carrier" means any person engaged in the
business of transporting persons, goods,
wares or merchandise by land, water or air;
"department" includes any branch or agency
of the Government of Canada or of the
government of a province, as the case may
be;
"Minister" means the Minister of Industry,
Trade and Commerce ;
"public utility" means any person owning,
operating or managing an undertaking for
the supply of electricity, gas or water or for
the supply of any telegraph, cable or
téléphone service ;
"régulation" means any régulation, order,
rule or instruction made or issued under
this Act. R.S., c. 257, s. 2; 1952-53, c. 18, s.
9; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 101.

## GENERAL

**3.** There shall be a Bureau under the
to be called the Dominion Bureau
Statistics, the duties of which are
  * (_a_) to collect, compile, analyze, abstract
and publish statistical information relative
to the commercial, industrial, financial,
social, économie and gênerai activities and
condition of the people;
(6) to coilaborate with ail other departments
of the government in the collection, compi-
lation and publication of statistical records
of administration according to any régula-
tions;
  * (_c_) to take the census of Canada as provided
in this Act ; and
  * (_d_) generally to organize a scheme of
coordinated social and économie statisties
pertaining to the whole of Canada and to
each of the provinces thereof. R.S., e. 257,
s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer called the Dominion
Statistician to hold office during pleasure,
whose duties are, under the direction of the
Minister,
  * (_a_) to advise on ail matters pertaining to
statistical policy and to eonfer with the
several departments of government to that
end;
  * (_b_) to organize and maintain a scheme of
coopération in the collection, classification
and publication of statisties as between the
several departments of government ;
  * (_c_) to supervise generally the administra-
tion of this Act and to control the opérations
and staff of the Bureau ; and
  * (_d_) to report annually to the Minister with
regard to the work of the Bureau during
the preceding year.
(2) Sueh other officers, clerks and employées
as are neeessary for the proper conduet of the
business of the Bureau may be appointed in
the manner authorized by law. R.S., e. 257,
s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Minister may employ from time
to time, in the manner authorized by law,
such commissioners, enumerators, agents or
persons as are neeessary to collect for the
Bureau such statisties and information as he
deems useful and in the public interest,
relating to such commercial, industrial, finan-
cial, social, économie and other activities as
he may détermine, and the duties of such
commissioners, enumerators, agents or persons
are such as the Minister prescribes.
(2) The Minister may, for such periods as
he may détermine, utilize the services of any
member of the public service of Canada in
the exercise or performance of any duty,
power or function of the Bureau or officer of
the Bureau under this or any other Act, and
ever}' person whose services are so utilized
shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed
to be emploj'ed under this Act. R.S., c. 257, s.
5; 1952-53, c. 18, s. 10.

**5.** (1) Every officer, census commissioner,
enumerator, agent and other person employed
in the exécution of any duty under this Act
or under any régulation, before entering on
his duties, shall take and subscribe the
foUowing oath :
I solemnly swear that I will faithfuily and
honestly fulfil my duties as
in conformity with the requirements of the Statistics Act
and of ail régulations thereunder, and that I will not,
without due authority in that behalf, disclose or make
known any matter or thing that comes to my knowledge
by reason of my employment as such
(2) The oath shall be taken before such
person, and returned and recorded in such
manner as the Minister prescribes. R.S., c.
257, s. 6.
7, The Minister shall
  * (_a_) make and prescribe such rules, régula-
tions, instructions, schedules and forms as
he deems requisite for conducting the work
and business of the Bureau, the coUecting,
compiling and publishing of statistics and
other information and the taking of any
census authorized by this Act ; and
  * (_fe_) prescribe what schedules, returns and
information are to be verified by oath, the
form of oath to be taken, and shall specify
the officers and persons by and before
whom the said oaths are to be taken. R.S.,
c. 257, s. 7.
STATISTICS

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council shall not,
nor shall the Minister, in the exécution of the
powers conferred by this Act, discriminate
between individuals or companies to the
préjudice of any such individuals or compa-
nies.
(2) Notwithstanding any thing in this Act,
Minister may authorize the collection of
by means of the statistical method
as "sampling". R.S., c. 257, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The Minister may enter into any
arrangement with the government of any
province providing for any matter necessary
or convenient for the purpose of carrying out
or giving effect to this Act, and in particular
for ail or any of the following matters :
  * (_a_) the exécution by provincial officers of
any power or duty conferred or imposed on
any officer under this Act or any régulation ;
  * (_b_) the collection by any provincial depart-
ment or officer of any statistical or other
information required for the purpose of
carrying out this Act ; and
  * (_c_) the supplying of statistical information
by any provincial department or officer to
the Dominion Statistician.
(2) Ail provincial officers executing any
power or duty conferred or imposed on any
officer under this Act or any régulation, in
pursuance of any arrangement entered into
under this section, shall, for the purposes of
the exécution of that power or duty, be
deemed to be officers under this Act.
(3) Ail schedules or forms returned to a
provincial department in pursuance of any
arrangement entered into under this section
shall be free of Canada postage, under such
régulations as are from time to time made in
that respect by the Governor in Council ; and
any person violating any such régulation is
guilty of an offence and is liable upon
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
fifty dollars. R.S., c. 257, s. 9.
10- Every person who has the custody or
charge of any provincial, municipal or other
public records or documents, or of any records
or documents of any corporation, from which
information sought in respect of the objects
of this Act can be obtained or which would
aid in the completion or correction thereof,
shall grant to any census officer, commissioner,
enumerator, agent or other person deputed
for that purpose by the Dominion Statistician,
access thereto for the obtaining of such
therefrom. R.S., c. 257, s. 10.
H. The Minister may, by spécial ietter of
direct any officer, census commis-
or other person employed in the
exécution of this Act to make inquiry under
oath as to any matter connected with the
taking of the census or the collection of
statistics or other information or the ascer-
taining or correction of any supposed defect
or inaccuracy therein ; and such officer, census
commissioner or other person then has the
same power as is vested in any court of justice,
of summoning any person, of enforcing his
attendance and of requiring and compelling
him to give évidence on oath, whether orally
or in writing, and to produce such documents
and things as such officer, census commissioner
or other person deems requisite to the full
investigation of such matter or matters. R.S.,
c. 257, s. 11.

**12.** Any ... Ietter purporting to be signed
  * (_a_) by the Minister or the Dominion
Statistician, or by any person thereunto
authorized by the Governor in Council, and
giving notice of any appointment or removal
of or setting forth any instructions to any
person employed in the exécution of this
Act, or
(6) by any officer, census commissioner or
other person thereunto duly authorized,
giving notice of anj^ appointment or removal
of or setting forth any instructions to any
person employed under thesuperintendence
of the signer thereof,
is évidence of such appointment, removal or
instructions, and that such Ietter was signed
and addressed as it purports to be. R.S., c.
257, s. 12.
X3. Any document or paper, written or
printed, purporting to be a form authorized
for use in the taking of a census, or the
collection of statistics or other information,
or to set forth any instructions relative thereto,
that is produced by any person employed in
the exécution of this Act, as being such form
as setting forth such instructions, shall be
to hâve been supplied by the proper
to the person so producing it, and
is évidence of ail instructions therein set forth.
R.S., c. 257, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The Minister shall, subject to the
approval of the Governor in Council, cause
to be prepared one or more tables setting
forth the rates of rémunération or allowances
for the several census commissioners, enumer-
ators, agents and other persons employed in
the exécution oî this Act, which may be a
fixed sum, a rate per diem, or a scale of fées,
together with allowances for expenses.
(2) Such rémunération or allowances and
ail expenses incurred in carrying this Act into
effect shall be paid out of moneys provided
by Parliament for that purpose.
(3) No rémunération or allowance shall be
paid to any person for any service performed
in connection with this Act until the service
required of such person has been faithfuUy
and entirely performed. R.S., c. 257, s. 14.

## SECRECY

**15.** (1) No individual return and no part
of an individual return made, and no answer
to any question put, for the purposes of this
Act, shall, without the previous consent in
writing of the person or of the owner for the
time being of the undertaking in relation to
which the return or answer was made or given,
be published, nor, except for the purposes of
a prosecution under this Act, shall any person,
other than a person employed by the Bureau
or working under arrangement with the
Bureau and sworn under section 6, be
permitted to see any such individual return,
part or answer.
(2) No report, summary of statistics or other
publication under this Act shall contain any
of the particulars comprised in any individual
return so arranged as to enable any person to
(3) This section does not apply to
  * (_a_) returns or answers made pursuant to
section 25 or section 26 ;
(6) returns or answers made by any hospital,
iibrary, university, mental institution,
tuberculosis institution, charitable and
benevolent institution or other similar non-
commercial institution, except particulars
of a financial nature comprised in any
individual return or particulars so arranged
as to enable any person to identify them as
being particulars relating to any individual
patient, inmate or other person in the care
of any such institution ; or
  * (_c_) an index or list, whether published
separately or in a report, summary of
statistics or other publication under this
Act, of particulars, taken from individual
returns, of
  * (_i_) the names and locations of individual
firms or businesses, or
  * (_ii_) the types of products produced,
manufactured or dealt with by individual
firms or businesses,
but no such list or index shall otherwise
reveal any of the particulars comprised in
any individual return. R.S., c. 257, s. 15;
1952-53, c. 18, s. 11.

## CENSUS OF POPULATION AND AGRICULTURE
16, The census of population and agricul-
ture of Canada shall be taken by the Bureau,
under the direction of the Minister, in the
month of June in the year 1951 and every
tenth year thereafter, on a day to be fixed by
the Governor in Council. R.S., c. 257, s. 16.

**17.** A census of population and agriculture
of the Provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Alberta shall be taken by the Bureau,
under the direction of the Minister, in the
month of June in the year 1956 and every
census district into subdistricts to correspond
as nearly as may be, with the
électoral divisions and subdivisions for the
time being, and in territories not so defined
or so situated as to admit of adhering to
boundaries already established, into spécial
divisions and subdivisions for the purpose of
the census. R.S., c. 257, s. 18.

**19.** Each census of population and agricul-
ture shall be so taken as to ascertain with the
utmost possible accuracy for Canada, its
various territorial divisions or the Provinces
of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, as
the case may be,
  * (_a_) the population ;
  * (_b_) the number of houses for habitation;
  * (_c_) the number of farms ;
  * (_d_) such characteristics of the subjects
described in paragraphs (a), (6) and (c) as
may be prescribed by the Governor in
Council ; and
  * (_e_) such other matters as may be prescribed
by the Governor in Council. 1952-53, c. 18,
s. 12.

## CENSUS OF INDUSTRY, CONSTRUCTION,

## TRADING AND SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS,
ETC.

**20.** A census with regard to mines, quarries,
fisheries and forests, and of manufacturing,
construction, commercial, and service estab-
lishments, and of such other industrial,
trading, business and professional activities
as may be prescribed by the Minister, shall be
taken at such intervais as the Minister may
direct, so as to ascertain with the utmost
possible accuracy the products and opérations
thereof. R.S., c. 257, s. 20.

**21.** (1) The Dominion Statistician shall,
under the direction of the Minister, prépare
forras for the collection of such data as may
be, in his judgment, désirable for the proper
présentation of industrial statistics, and the
shall embody inquiries as to
  * (_a_) the name under which business is carried
on;
  * (_b_) the kind of goods manufactured or
business done ;
  * (_c_) the capital invested ;
  * (_d_) the principal stock or raw raaterials
used, and total value thereof ;
  * (_e_) the gross quantity and value of articles
manufactured ;
  * (_i_) the number of persons employed, distin-
guished as to sex, adults and children ;
ig) the power used or generated ;
  * (_h_) the total wages and salaries paid ; and
  * (_z_) the number of days on which business
was carried on, and anj' other spécial
matter.
(2) The Minister may employ agents or
other persons for the collection of the statistics
referred to in subsection (1) or a form may be
sent to the person from whom information is
desired and such person shall answer the
inquiries thereon and return the form to the
Bureau, properly certified as accurate, not
later than the time prescribed thereon or such
extended time as the Minister in his discrétion
may allow. R.S., c. 257, s. 21.

**22.** The Dominion Statistician shall, under
the direction of the Minister,
  * (_a_) annually prépare a report on the
statistics of commerce and navigation of
Canada with foreign countries, which shall,
according to the principles and in the
manner defined in the régulations,
  * (_i_) State the kinds, quantities and values
of the merchandise entered and cleared
coastwise into and from the customs
collection ports of Canada,
  * (_ii_) comprehend ail goods, wares and
merchandise exported from Canada to
other countries,
  * (_iii_) comprehend ail goods, wares and
merchandise imported into Canada from
other countries, and
  * (_iv_) comprehend ail navigation employed
in the foreign trade of Canada ;
(6) prépare and publish monthly reports of
the exports and imports of Canada, includ-
ing the quantities and values of accounts
drawn from the warehouse and such other
statistics relative to the trade and industry
of the country as the Minister may consider
expédient; and
  * (_c_) prépare such reports as the Minister
may require on the statistics of commerce
Canada or in connection with the coastal
trade of Canada or both. R.S., c. 257, s. 22;
1952-53, c. 18, s. 13.

**23.** The Department of National Revenue
shall send to the Dominion Statistician, in
such manner and form and at such periods as
the Governor in Council may prescribe,
returns of imports from and exports to foreign
countries arriving at or leaving Canada bj'
water, land or air, and of the navigation
employed in the foreign trade of Canada.
R.S., c. 257, s. 23.

**24.** The Dominion Statistician shall
prépare and make a report annually contain-
ing the results of any information collected
during the preceding year upon the domestic
trade of Canada. R.S., c. 257, s. 24.
CARRIERS AND PUBLIC XmLITIES

**25.** (1) When so required by the Minister,
every carrier and public utility shall annually
prépare returns in such form as may be
prescribed by the Governor in Council with
respect to its opérations.
(2) The returns mentioned in subsection (1)
shall be signed and certified as accurate by
the individual concerned or by the secretary
or other responsible officer if the carrier or
public utility is a corporation.
(3) The returns mentioned in subsection (1)
shall be made for the period beginning from
the day to which the then last yearly returns
made by the carrier or public utility extended,
or if no such returns hâve been previously
made, from the commencement of the opéra-
tion of the carrier or public utility and ending
with the last day of December in the year for
which the returns are to be made or with such
other day as the Minister may direct.
(4) The returns, completed as required by
section, shall be forwarded by such carrier
or public utility to the Dominion Statistician
one month after the Ist day of
in each year or within one raonth
any other day directed by the Minister
subsection (3). R.S., c. 257, s. 25.

**26.** (1) When so required by the Minister,
every carrier shall prépare returns of his
traffic and opérations monthiy, and every
public utility shall prépare returns of its
opérations monthiy, that is to say, from the
first to the end of the month inclusive ; and
thèse returns are to be in accordance with the
form prepared by the Dominion Statistician
and approved by the Minister.
(2) The return, signed by the individual
concerned or, if the carrier or public utility is
a corporation, by an officer responsible for its
correctness, shall be forwarded to the Domin-
ion Statistician within forty-five days from
the end of the month to which the return
relates. R.S., c. 257, s. 26.

**27.** Ail returns made in pursuance of
section 25 or 26 are privileged communications
and shall not be évidence in any court
whatever, except in any prosecution for
  * (_a_) default in making such returns in
accordance with the requirements of this
Act;
  * (_b_) perjury in making any oath required by
this Act in connection with such returns ;
  * (_c_) forgery of any such return ; or
  * (_d_) signing any such return knowing that it
is false. R.S., c. 257, s. 27.
CRIMINAL STATISTICS

**28.** The clerk of every court or tribunal
administering criminal justice, or in case there
is no clerk, the judge or other functionary
presiding over such court or tribunal shall, at
such times, in such manner and respecting
such periods as the Minister may direct, fill
in and transmit the schedules he receives
relating to the criminal business transacted in
such court or tribunal. 1952-53, c. 18, s. 14.

**29.** The warden of every penitentiary and
reformatory and the sheriff of every county,
district or other territorial division shall, at
such times, in such manner and respecting
such periods as the Minister may direct, fill
in and transmit the schedules he receives
to the prisoners committed to any
reformatory or gaol under his
charge or within his jurisdiction. 1952-53, c.
18, s. 15.

**30.** Every person required to transmit any
schedules mentioned in section 28 or 29 shall
from day to day make and keep entries and
records of the particulars to be comprised in
such schedules. R.S., c. 257, s. 30.

**31.** The Solicitor General of Canada shall
cause to be filled in and transmitted to the
Dominion Statistician, at such times and for
such periods as the Minister may direct, such
schedules as the Minister may prescribe
relative to the cases in which the prérogative
of mercy has been exercised. 1952-53, c. 18,
s. 16.

## GENERAL STATISTICS

**32.** Subject to the direction of the Minister,
the Bureau shall collect, compile, analyze,
abstract and publish statistics in relation to
ail or any of the following matters :
  * (_a_) population;
(6) births, deaths, marriages, divorces;
  * (_c_) epidemiology, morbidity;
  * (_d_) immigration and émigration ;
  * (_e_) employment, unemployment, payrolls,
man-hours ;
(J) agriculture, horticulture, dairying, cold
storage
  * (_g_) factories, mines and productive indus-
tries generally ;
  * (_h_) éducation;
  * (_i_) public and private finance ;
0) wholesale and retail trade and supplying
of services ;
  * (_k_) hospitals, mental institutions, tuber-
culosis institutions, charitable and benevo-
lent institutions;
(0 priées and cost of living ; and
  * (_m_) any other matters prescribed by the
Minister or by the Governor in Council.
R.S., c. 257, s. 32.

**33.** The Govemor in Council may author-
the Minister to hâve any spécial statistical
made that is deemed advisable,
may prescribe the manner and by what
such investigation shall be made. R.S.,
257, s. 33,

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**34.** Every persdn employed in the exécu-
tion of any duty under this Act or any
régulation who,
  * (_a_) after having taken the prescribed oath,
déserts from his duty, or wilfully makes
any false déclaration, statement or return
concerning any such matter ;
(6) in the pretended performance of his
duties thereunder, obtains or seeks to obtain
information that he is not duly authorized
to obtain ; or
  * (_c_) fails to keep inviolate the secrecy of the
information gathered or entered on the
schedules and forms, and who, except as
allowed by this Act and the régulations,
divulges the contents of any schedule or
form filled in, in pursuance of this Act or
any régulation, or any information fur-
nished in pursuance of this Act or any
régulation;
is guilty of an offence and is liable, on
summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding
three hundred dollars, or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding six months, or to both.
R.S., c. 257, s. 34.

**35.** Every person who, without lawful
excuse,
  * (_a_) refuses or neglects to answer, or wilfully
answers falsely, any question requisite for
obtaining any information sought in respect
of the objects of this Act or any régulation,
or pertinent thereto, that has been asked of
him by any person employed in the
exécution of any duty under this Act or
any régulation ; or
(6) refuses or neglects to furnish any
information or to fill in to the best of his
knowledge and belief any schedule or form
that he has been required to fill in, and to
return the same when and as required of
him under this Act or any régulation, or
wilfully gives false information or practices
any other déception thereunder ;
is, for every such refusai or neglect, or false
or déception, guilty of an offence and
liable, upon summary conviction, to a fine
exceeding one hundred dollars, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
or to both. R.S., c. 257, s. 35.

**36.** Every person who has the custody or
charge of any provincial, municipal or other
public records or documents, or of any records
or documents of any corporation, from which
information sought in respect of the objects
of this Act or any régulations can be obtained,
or that would aid in the completion or
correction thereof, who refuses or neglects to
grant access thereto to any census officer,
commissioner, enumerator, agent or other
person deputed for that purpose by the
Dominion Statistician, and every person who
wilfully hinders or seeks to prevent or obstruct
such access, or otherwise in any way wilfully
obstructs or seeks to obstruct any person
employed in the exécution of any duty under
this Act or any régulation, is guilty of an
offence and is liable, on summary conviction,
to a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars
and not less than fifty dollars, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months and not less than one month, or to
both fine and imprisormaent. R.S., c. 257, s.

**36.**

**37.** The leaving by an enumerator, agent
or other person employed in the exécution of
this Act or any régulation, at any house or
part of a house, of any schedule or form
purporting to be issued under this Act or any
régulation, and having thereon a notice
requiring that it be filled in and signed within
a stated time by the occupant of such house
or part of a house, or in his absence by some
other member of the family, is, as against the
occupant, a sufficient requirement so to fill
in and sign the schedule or form, though the
is not named in the notice, or
served therewith. R.S., c. 257, s. 37.

**38.** The leaving by an enumerator or agent
other person employée! in the exécution of
this Act or any régulation at the office or
other place of business of any person or the
delivery by registered mail to any person or
his agent, of any schedule or form purporting
to be issued under this Act or any régulation,
and having thereon a notice requiring that it
be filled in and signed within a stated time,
is, as against the person, a sufficient require-
ment to fill in and sign the schedule or form,
and if so required in the notice, to mail the
schedule or form within a stated time to the
Bureau. R.S., c. 257, s. 38.

**39.** Every person employed under this Act
who
  * (_a_) wilfuUy discloses or makes known direct-
ly or indirectly to any person not entitled
under this Act or any régulation to receive
the same, any information obtained by him
in the course of his employment which
might exert an influence upon or affect the
market value of any product or article, or
(6) uses any such information for the
purpose of speculating in any product or
article,
is guilty of an offence and is liable, on
summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding
five thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or to both.
R.S., c. 257, s. 39.

**40.** Any fine imposed and recovered for
any offence under this Act belongs to Her
Majesty for the public uses of Canada. R.S.,
c. 257, s. 40.

**41.** Where an offence against this Act or
any régulation bas been committed the
complaint may be made or the information
laid within twelve months from the time when
the matter of the complaint or information
arose. R.S., c. 257, s. 41.
