
# CHAPTERS-18
Act respecting the Department of Supply
and Services

## SHORT TTTLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of Supply and Services Act.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of Supply and Services.
(2) In this Act the expressions "Crown
corporation" and "department" hâve the
same meaning as in the Financial Administra-
tion Act. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 41.

## DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY AND SERVICES

**3.** (1) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Supply and Services over which the
Minister of Supply and Ser\'ices appointed
by commission under the Great Seal shall
préside.
(2) The Minister holds office during pleas-
ure and has the management and direction of
the Department of Supply and Services. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 42.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister
of Supply to be a deputy head of the
Department of Supply and Services in respect
of ail matters assigned to him by the Minister,
and to hold office during pleasure.
Services to be a deputy head of the
Department of Supply and Services in respect
of ail matters assigned to him by the Minister,
and to hold office during pleasure. 1968-69, c.
28, s. 43.

## DUTIES AND POWERS

**5.** (1) The duties, powers and functions of
the Minister extend to and include ail matters
over which the Parliament of Canada has
jurisdiction, not by law assigned to any other
department, branch or agency of the Govern-
ment of Canada, relating to
  * (_a_) the acquisition and provision of articles,
supplies, machinery, equipment and other
matériel for departments ;
(6) the acquisition and provision of services
for departments ;
  * (_c_) the planning and organizing of the
provision of matériel and services required
by departments ; and
  * (_d_) the acquisition and provision of printing
and publishing services for departments.
(2) The Minister shall
  * (_a_) investigate and develop services for
increasing the efficiency and economy of
the public service of Canada ;
  * (_b_) purchase matériel and services in accord-
ance with any régulations relating to
government contracta that are applicable
thereto ;
  * (_c_) plan and organize the provision of
matériel and related services to departments
including the préparation of spécifications
and standards, the cataloguing of matériel,
the détermination of aggregate require-
ments for matériel, the assuring of quality
of matériel, and the maintenance, distribu-
tion, st orage and disposai of matériel and
other activities associated with the manage-
ment of matériel ; and
  * (_d_) provide such other services within the
public service of Canada as the Governor
in Council may direct from time to time.
(3) The Department of Supply and Services
be operated as a common service agency
for the Government of Canada, that is to say,
its activities shall be directed mainly toward
providing the departments and agencies of
the Government of Canada with services in
support of the programs of those departments
and agencies.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (l)(c), the
power of the Minister to manage matériel as
distinct from its acquisition does not extend
to the management, in an exclusively military
supply System, of matériel essential for the
conduct of military missions. 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**44.**

**6.** The Minister is the Receiver General for
Canada and shall exercise ail the duties,
powers and functions assigned to the Receiver
General by law ; and the Deputy Minister of
Services is the Deputy Receiver General. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 45.

**7.** (1) The Minister shall provide such
administrative and other services required for
the disbursement of pay to persons employed
in or by any department and to persons
employed in or by other portions of the public
service of Canada as the Governor in Council
may direct from time to time.
(2) The Minister shall provide such adminis-
trative and other services in relation to
employée benefit plans and superannuation
or pension plans as may be required of him
from time to time by the Governor in Council.
(3) The Minister shall provide, on the
request of a department, any or ail of the
foUowing services, namely:
  * (_a_) management consulting services ;
(6) data processing services ;
  * (_c_) accounting services ;
  * (_d_) auditing services ;
  * (_e_) financial services ; and
if) such other services of any kind as are
within the duties, powers and functions of
the Minister under this Act. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 46.

**8.** Nothing in this Act precludes the
Minister from providing, with the pripr
the Government of Canada, such Crown
corporations and such governments and
organizations in Canada as request any such
services to be provided by the Minister on
their behalf. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 47.
9, T^g Minister may, by order, appoint an
officer of the Department of Supply and
Services to be the Queen's Printer for Canada
who shall, under the supervision of the
Minister, exercise such printing and publishing
functions for the Government of Canada as
are assigned to the Queen's Printer by law or
as may be assigned to him by the Minister.
1968-69, c. 28, s. 48.
jQ. (1) For such periods and under such
terms and conditions as he deems suitable,
the Minister ma\' from time to time delegate
any of his duties, powers or functions under
this Act to an appropriate Minister within the
meaning of the Financial Administration Act.
(2) Subject to and in accordance with such
régulations as may be made bj' the Treasur>'
Board in that behalf, the Minister may charge
for ser\-ices provided by the Department of
Supply and Services pursuant to this Act.
(3) Except to the extent that such powers
may be delegated by the Minister, the
Minister shall exercise, in relation to the
acquisition and provision of matériel for the
use oî any department, the powers in that
behalf granted to any Minister or other
authority under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada.' 196*^9, c. 28, s. 49.
U, (1) Subject to such regvilations as may
be made by the Governor in Council or the
Treasury Board in that behalf, the Minister
may, on behalf of the Government of Canada,
enter into contracts for the performance of
any matter or thing that falls within the
duties, powers or functions of the Minister.
(2) The Minister may, from time to time,
order, prescribe gênerai terms and condi-
for contracts that he may enter into
this Act, and the gênerai terms and
may be incorporated by référence
particular classes of contracts.
(3) Subject to the express terms and condi-
tions contained therein, a contract entered
into bj' the Minister that provides that gênerai
terms and conditions, identified by number
or other désignation in an order made under
subsection (1), are applicable thereto or form
part thereof shall be read and construed as if
the gênerai terms and conditions to which
such référence is made were expressly set out
in the contract. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 50.

**12.** The Minister shall, on or before the
31st day of January next following the end
of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not
then sitting, on any of the first five days next
thereafter that Parliament is sitting, submit
to Parliament a report showing the opérations
of the Department of Supply and Services for
that fiscal year. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 51.
