Court Act. R.S., c. 259, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
'appeal" includes any proceeding to set aside
or vary any judgment of the court appealed
from;
'the court appealed from" means the court
from which the appeal is brought directly
to the Suprême Court, whether such court
is one of original jurisdiction or a court of
appeal ;
'final judgment" means any judgment, rule,
order or décision that détermines in whole
or in part any substantive right of any of
the parties in controversy in any judicial
proceeding
'judge" means a judge of the Suprême Court
of Canada and includes the Chief Justice ;
'judgment", when used with référence to the
court appealed from, includes any judg-
ment, rule, order, décision, decree, décrétai
order or sentence thereof ; and when used
with référence to the Suprême Court,
includes any judgment or order of that
Court ;
'judicial proceeding" includes any action,
suit, cause, matter or other proceeding in
disposing of which the court appealed from
has not exercised merely a regulative,
administrative, or executiv^e jurisdiction;
'Registrar" means the Registrar of the
Suprême Court ;
Suprême Court" or "the Court"means
the Suprême Court of Canada ;
"witness" means any person, whether a party
or not, to be examined under this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act the
expression "highest court of final resort in a
province" includes in the Yukon Territory or
in the Northwest Territories, the Court of
Appeal thereof. R.S., c. 259, s. 2; 1960, c. 20,
s. 6; 1960, c. 24, s. 9.

## THE COURT

**3.** The court of common law and equity in
and for Canada now existing under the name
of the Suprême Court of Canada is hereby
continued under that name, as a gênerai court
of appeal for Canada, and as an additional
court for the better administration of the laws
of Canada, and shall continue to be a court
of record. R.S., c. 259, s. 3.

## THE JUDGES

**4.** The Suprême Court shall consist of a
chief justice to be called the Chief Justice of
Canada, and eight puisne judges, who shall
be appointed by the Governor in Council by
letters patent under the Great Seal. R.S., c.
259, s. 4.

**5.** Any person may be appointed a judge
who is or has been a judge of a superior court
of any of the provinces of Canada, or a
barrister or advocate of at least ten years
standing at the bar of any of the provinces.
R.S., c. 259, s. 5.

**6.** At least three of the judges shall be
appointed from among the judges of the
Court of Queen's Bench, or of the Superior
Court, or the barristers or advocates of the
Province of Québec. R.S., c. 259, s. 6.

**7.** No judge shall hold any other office of
émolument either under the Government of
Canada or under the government of any
province of Canada. R.S., c. 259, s. 7.

**9.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), thc judges
office during good behaviour, but are
by the Governor General on
of the Senate and House of Gommons.
(2) A judge ceases to hold office upon
attaining the âge of seventy-five years. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 9.

**10.** Every judge shall, before enteringupon
the duties of his office as such judge, take an
oath in the foUowing form :
I do solemnly and sincerely promise and
swear that I will duly and faithfully, and to the best of
my skill and knowledge. exécute the powers and trusts
reposed in me as Chief Justice (or as one of the judges) of
the Suprême Court of Canada. So heip me God.
R.S., C. 259, s. 10,

**11.** The oath referred to in section 10 shall
be administered to the Chief Justice before
the Governor General , or person administering
the Government of Canada, in Council, and
to the puisne judges by the Chief Justice, or,
in his absence or illness, by any other judge
présent at Ottawa. R.S., c. 259, s. 11.

## THE REGISTRAR AND OTHER OFFICERS

**12.** (1) The Governor in Council may by
instruments under the Great Seal appoint fit
and proper persons, being barristers of at least
five years standing, to be Registrar of the
Suprême Court and Deputy Registrar of the
Suprême Court respectively.
(2) Such other officers, clerks and employées
as are required for the purposes of the Court
shall be appointed under the Public Service
Employment Act. 1956, c. 48, s. 1.

**13.** (1) The Registrar and Deputy Regis-
trar shall be appointed to hold office during
pleasure and shall each be paid a salary to be
fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) The Registrar and Deputy Registrar
shall dévote their full time to their respective
positions and shall not receive any pay, fee
or allowances in any form in excess of the
amount provided under subsection (1). 1956,
c. 48, s. 1.

**14.** The Registrar shall keep an office in
the city of Ottawa and the Registrar and
Deputy Registrar shall réside in the city of
Ottawa or within five miles thereof. 1956, c.
48, s. 1.

**15.** Subject to the direction of the Minister
of Justice, the Registrar shall superintend the
officers, clerks and employées appointed to
the Court. 1956, c. 48, s. 1.

**16.** The Registrar shall, under the supervi-
sion of the Minister of Justice, manage and
control the library of the Court and the
purchase of ail books therefor. 1956, c. 48,
s. 1.

**17.** The Registrar or the Deputy Registrar,
as the Minister directs, shall report and
publish the judgments of the Court. 1956, c.
48, s. 1.

**18.** The Registrar has such authority to
exercise the jurisdiction of a judge sitting in
chambers as may be conferred upon him by
gênerai rules or orders made under this Act.
1956, c. 48, s. 1.

**19.** The Deputj' Registrar shall exercise
and perform such of the powers and duties of
the Registrar as are assigned to him by the
Registrar, and may exercise and perform ail
the powers and duties of the Registrar in the
event that the Registrar is absent or unable
to act or the office of Registrar is vacant.
1956, c. 48, s. 1.

**20.** The Public Service Employmenl Ad and
the Public Service Superannuation Act, so far
as applicable, extend and apply to the
Registrar and Deputy Registrar. 1956, c. 48,
s. 1.
2 1. The Sheriff of the County of Carleton,
in the Province of Ontario, is ex officia an
officer of the Court and shall perform the
duties and functions of a sheriff in connection
therewith. R.S., c. 259, s. 21.

## BARRISTERS AND SOLICITORS

**22.** Ail persons who are barristers or
advocates in any of the provinces of Canada
may practise as barristers, advocates and
counsel in the Suprême Court. R.S., c. 259,

**22.**

**23.** Ail persons who are attorneys or
of the superior courts in any of the
of Canada maj' practise as attorneys,
and proctors in the Suprême Court.
c. 259, s. 23.

**24.** Ail persons who may practise as
barristers, advocates, counsel, attorneys, solici-
tors or proctors in the Suprême Court are
officers of the Court. R.S., c. 259, s. 24.

## SESSIONS AND QUORUM

**25.** Any five of the judges of the Suprême
Court shall constitute a quorum and may
lawfully hold the Court. R.S., c. 259, s. 25.

**26.** It is not necessary for ail the judges
who hâve heard the argument in any case to
be présent in order to constitute the Court for
delivery of judgment in that case, but in the
absence of any judge, from illness or any
other cause, judgment may be delivered by a
majority of the judges who were présent at
the hearing. R.S., c. 259, s. 26.

**27.** (1) Any judge who has heard the case
and is absent at the delivery of judgment,
may hand his opinion in writing to any judge
présent at the delivery of judgment, to be
read or announced in open court, andthen to
be left with the Registrar or reporter of the
Court.
(2) A judge who has resigned his office, or
who has ceased to hold office under section 9
shall, within six months thereafter, for the
purposes of this section, be deemed to be
absent at the delivery of judgment in any
case heard by him in which judgment has not
been delivered during his tenure of office.
R.S., c. 259, s. 27.

**28.** (1) No judge against whose judgment
an appeal is brought, or who took part in the
trial of the cause or matter, or in the hearing
in a court below, shall sit or take part in the
hearing of or adjudication upon the proceed-
ings in the Suprême Court.
(2) In any cause or matter in which a judge
the Suprême Court constitute a quorum and
may lawfully hold the Court. R.S., c. 259,
s. 28.

**29.** Any four judges constitute a quorum
^^^ "^^y lawfully hold the Court in cases
where the parties consent to be heard before
a court so composed. R.S., c. 259, s. 29.

**30.** (1) Where at any time there is not a
quorum of the judges of the Suprême Court
available to hold or continue anj- session of
the Court, owing to a vacancy or vacancies,
or to the absence through illness or on leave
or in the discharge of other duties assigned
by statute or order in council, or to the
disqualification of a judge or judges, the
Chief Justice, or, in his absence, the senior
puisne judge, may in writing request the
attendance at the sittings of the Court, as an
ad hoc judge, for such period as may be
necessary, of a judge of the Exchequer Court,
or, should the judges of that court be absent
from Ottawa or for any reason unable to sit,
of a judge of a provincial superior court to be
designated in writing by the Chief Justice or
in his absence by any acting chief justice or
the senior puisne judge of such provincial
court upon such request being made to him
in writing.
(2) Unless two of the judges of the Suprême
Court available fulfil the requirements of
section 6, the ad hoc iudge for the hearing of
an appeal from a judgment rendered in the
Province of Québec shall be a judge of the
Court of Queen's Bench or a judge of the
Superior Court of that Province designated
as above provided.
(3) A duplicate of the réquisition of the
Chief Justice or senior puisne judge and
where a judge of a provincial court is
designated to act, the letter designating him
shall be filed with the Registrar and is
conclusive évidence of the authority of the
judge named therein to act under this section.
(4) It is the duty of the judge whose
attendance has been so requested or who has
been so designated in priority to other duties
of his office, to attend the sittings of the
Court at the time and for the period
which his attendance is required, and
so attending he possesses the powers
and privilèges and shall discharge the duties
of a puisne judge of the Suprême Court.
(5) An ad hoc judge who attends at sittings
of the Suprême Court or any conférence of
the judges called for the considération of
judgments in cases in which he sat, shall be
paid his travelling expenses and shall receive
an allowance for living expenses for each day
that he is necessarily absent from his place of
résidence, as provided by the Judges Ad.
(6) In any case in which judgment is not
delivered while such judge is attending the
sittings of the Court or a conférence of the
judges, his opinion shall be delivered as
provided by section 27. R.S., c. 259, s. 30;
1966-67, c. 76, s. 2.

**31.** (1) The Court may, in any Admiralty
appeal, in which it may think it expédient to
do so, call in the aid of one or more assessors
specially qualified and try and hear such
appeal, wholly or partiallj- with the assistance
of such assessors.
(2) The rémunération, if any, to be paid to
such assessors shall be determined by the
Court.R.S.,c. 259, s. 31.

**32.** (1) The Suprême Court, for the purpose
of hearing and determining appeals, shall
hold, in each year, in the city of Ottawa,
three sessions.
(2) The first sessiou shall begin on the
fourth Tuesday in January, the second on the
fourth Tuesday in April, and the third on the
first Tuesday in October, in each year.
(3) The dates in subsection (2), fixed for the
beginning of each session, may be varied by
the Governor in Council, or by the Court, if
notice is given in the Canada Gazette not less
than four weeks before the date that may be
fixed for the beginning of any session.
(4) Each session shall be continued until
the business before the Court is disposed of.
R.S.,c. 259, s. 32; R.S., c. 335, s. 1.

**33.** The Suprême Court may adjoum any
from time to time and meet again at
the time appointée! for the transaction of
business. R.S., c. 259, s. 33.

**34.** The Court may be convened at any
time by the Chief Justice, or, in the event of
his absence or illness by the senior puisne
judge, in such manner as is prescribed by the
rules of Court. R.S., c. 259, s. 34.

## APPELLATE JURISDICTION

**35.** The Suprême Court shall hâve, hold
and exercise an appellate, civil and criminal
jurisdiction within and throughout Canada.
R.S., c. 259, s. 35.

**36.** Subject to sections 40 and 44, an appeal
to the Suprême Court lies from a final
judgment or a judgment granting a motion
for a nonsuit or directing a new trial of the
highest court of final resort in a province, or
a judge thereof , pronounced in
  * (_a_) a judicial proceeding where the amount
or value of the matter in controversy in the
appeal exceeds ten thousand dollars, or
  * (_b_) proceedings for or upon a writ of habeas
corpus or mandamus. R.S., c. 259, s. 36 ; 1956,
c. 48, s. 2.

**37.** An appeal lies to the Suprême Court
from an opinion pronounced by the highest
court of final resort in a province on any
matter referred to it for hearing and consid-
ération by the lieutenant governor in council
of that province whenever it has been by the
statutes of that province declared that such
opinion is to be deemed a judgment of the
highest court of final resort and that an
appeal lies therefrom as from a judgment in
an action. R.S., c. 259, s. 37.

**38.** Subject to sections 40 and 44, an appeal
to the Suprême Court lies with leave of the
highest court of final resort in a province
from a final judgment of that court where, in
the opinion of that court, the question
involved in the appeal is one that ought to
be submitted to the Suprême Court for
décision. R.S., c. 259, s. 38.

**39.** Subject to sections 40 and 44, an appeal
to the Suprême Court lies in respect of a
question of law alone with leave of the highest
judges of which are appointed b\' the
Governor General, pronounced in a judicial
where the amount or value of the
matter in controversy in the appeal exceeds
two thousand dollars and an appeal lies to
that court of final resort, if the consent in
writing of the parties or their solicitors,
verif ied by af f idavit , is f iled with the Registrar
of the Suprême Court and with the registrar,
clerk or prothonotary of the court from which
the appeal is to be taken. R.S., c. 259, s. 39.

**40.** No appeal to the Suprême Court lies
under section 36, 38 or 39 from a judgment in
a criminal cause, in proceedings for or upon
a writ of habeas corpus, certiorari or prohibition
arising out of a criminal charge, or in
proceedings for or upon a writ of habeas corpus
arising out of a claim for extradition made
under a treaty. R.S., c. 259, s. 40.

**41.** (1) Subject to subsection (3), an appeal
lies to the Suprême Court with leave of that
Court from any final or other judgment of
the highest court of final resort in a province,
or a judge thereof, in which judgment can be
had in the particular case sought to be
appealed to the Suprême Court, whether or
not leave to appeal to the Suprême Court has
been refused by any other court.
(2) Leave to appeal under this section may
be granted during the period fixed by section
64 or within thirty days thereafter or within
such further extended time as the Suprême
Court or a judge may either before or after
the expiry of the thirty days fix or allow.
(3) No appeal to the Suprême Court lies
under this section from the judgment of any
court acquitting or convicting or setting aside
or affirming a conviction or acquittai of an
indictable offence or, except in respect of a
question of law or jurisdiction, of an offence
other than an indictable offence.
(4) Whenever the Suprême Court has grant-
leave to appeal, the Suprême Court or a
may, notwithstanding anything in this
Act, extend the time within which the appeal
may be allowed. R.S., c. 259, s. 41 ; 1956, c. 48,
s. 3.

**42.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the Suprême Court has jurisdiction as pro-
vided in any other Act conferring jurisdiction.
R.S., c. 259, s. 42.

**43.** Where the right to appeal is dépendent
on the amount or value of the matter in
controversy the amount or value may be
proved by affidavit, and it shall not include
interest subséquent to the day on which the
judgment to be appealed from was pronounced
or any costs. 1956, c. 48, s. 4.

**44.** (1) No appeal lies to the Suprême
Court from a judgment or order made in the
exercise of judicial discrétion except in
proceedings in the nature of a suit or
proceeding in equity originating elsewhere
than in the Province of Québec and except in
mandamus proceedings.
(2) This section does not apply to an appeal
under section 41. R.S., c. 259, s. 44; 1956, c.
48, s. 5.

**45.** Where any Act authorizes an appeal to
the Suprême Court of Canada with leave of
that Court, any three of the judges of the
Court constitute a quorum for the purpose of
hearing and disposing of the application for
leave to appeal, except that in the case of an
application for leave to appeal from the
judgment of a court
  * (_a_) affirming or quashing a conviction of
an offence punishable by death, or
(6) allowing or dismissing an appeal against
an acquittai of an offence punishable by
death, including an acquittai in respect of
a principal offence where the accused has
been convicted of an offence included in
the principal offence,
any five of the judges of the Court constitute
a quorum. 1956, c. 48, s. 6.

## JUDGMENTS

**46.** The Court may quash proceedings in
^^^^^ brought before it in which an appeal
against good faith. R.S., c. 259, s. 45.

**47.** The Court may dismiss an appeal or
give the judgment and award the process or
other proceedings that the court, whose
décision is appealed against, should hâve
given or awarded. R.S., c. 259, s. 46.

**48.** On any appeal, the Court may, in its
discrétion, order a new trial, if the ends of
justice seem to require it, although such new
trial is deemed necessary upon the ground
that the verdict is against the weight of
évidence. R.S., c. 259, s. 47.
COSTS

**49.** The Court may, in its discrétion, order
the payment of the costs of the court appealed
from and of the court of original jurisdiction,
and also of the appeal, or any part thereof,
as well when the judgment appealed from is
varied or reversed as when it is affirmed. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 48.

## AMENDMENTS

**50.** (1) At an3' time during the pendency
of an appeal before the Court, the Court may,
upon the application of any of the parties, or
without any such application, make ail such
amendments as are necessarj* for the purpose
of determining the appeal, or the real question
or controversy between the parties as disclosed
by the pleadings, évidence or proceedings.
(2) An amendment referred to in subsection
(1) may be made, whether the necessity for it
is or is not occasioned by the defect, error,
act, default or neglect of the partj' applying
to amend. R.S., c. 259, ss. 49, 50.
5 1. Every amendment shall be made upon
such terms as to payment of costs, postponing
the hearing or otherwise as to the Court seem
just. R.S., c. 259, s. 51.

## INTEREST

**52.** If, on appeal against any judgment,
the Court affirms such judgment, interest
shall be allowed by the Court for such time
as exécution bas been delayed by the appeal.
R.S., c. 259, s. 52.

## CERTIFICATE OF JUDGMENT

**53.** The judgment of the Court in appeal
shall be certified by the Registrar to the
proper officer of the court of original
jurisdiction, who shall thereupon make al!
proper and necessary entries thereof ; and ail
subséquent proceedings may be taken there-
upon as if the judgment had been given or
pronounced in the last mentioned court. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 53.

## JUDGMENT FINAL AND CONCLUSIVE

**54.** (1) The Suprême Court shall bave,
hold and exercise exclusive ultimate appellate
civil and criminal jurisdiction within and for
Canada ; and the judgment of the Court is,
in ail cases, final and conclusive.
(2) Notwithstanding any royal prérogative
or anything contained in any Act of the
Parliament of the United Kingdom or any
Act of the Parliament of Canada or any Act
of the législature of any province of Canada
or any other statute or law, no appeal lies or
shall be brought from or in respect of the
judgment of any court, judge or judicial
officer in Canada to any court of appeal,
tribunal or authority by which, in the United
Kingdom, appeals or pétitions to Her Majesty
in Council may be ordered to be heard.
(3) The Judicial Committee Act, 1833, chap-
ter 41 of the statutes of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, 1833, and The
Judicial Committee Act, 1844, chapter 69 of the
statutes of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland, 1844, and ail orders, rules
or régulations made under those Acts are
repealed in so far as they are part of the law
of Canada. R.S., c. 259, s. 54.
SPECIAL JURISDICTION
Références by Govemor in Council

**55.** (1) Important questions of law or fact
concerning
  * (_a_) the interprétation of the British North
America Acts ;
(6) the constitutionality or interprétation
of any fédéral or provincial législation ;
  * (_c_) the appellate jurisdiction as to educa-
tional matters, by the British North America
Ad, 1867, or by any other Act or law vested
in the Governor in Council ;
{d) the powers of the Parliament of Canada,
or of the législatures of the provinces, or of
the respective governments thereof , whether
or not the particular power in question has
been or is proposed to be exercised ; or
  * (_e_) any other matter, whether or not in the
opinion of the Court ejusdem generis with
the foregoing enumerations, with référence
to which the Governor in Council sees fit
to submit any such question ;
may be referred by the Governor in Council
to the Suprême Court for hearing and
considération ; and any question concerning
any of the matters aforesaid, so referred by
the Governor in Council, shall be conclusively
deemed to be an important question.
(2) Where a référence is made to the Court
under subsection (1) it is the duty of the Court
to hear and consider it, and to answer each
question so referred ; and the Court shall
certify to the Governor in Council, for his
information, its opinion upon each such
question, with the reasons for each answer;
and the opinion shall be pronounced in like
manner as in the case of a judgment upon an
appeal to the Court ; and any judge who
differs from the opinion of the majority shall
in like manner certify his opinion and his
reasons.
(3) Where the question relates to the
constitutional validity of any Act that has
heretofore been or is hereafter passed by the
législature of any province, or of any provision
in any such Act, or in case, for any reason,
the government of any province has any
spécial interest in any such question, the
attorney gênerai of the province shall be
notified of the hearing, in order that he may
heard if he thinks fit.
(4) The Court has power to direct that any
interested, or, where there is a class of
interested, any one or more persons
as représentatives of such class, shall be
notified of the hearing upon any référence
under this section, and such persons are
entitled to be heard thereon.
(5) The Court may, in its discrétion, request
any counsel to argue the case as to any
interest that is affected and as to which
counsel does not appear, and the reasonable
expenses thereby occasioned may be paid by
the Minister of Finance out of any moneys
appropriated by Parliament for expenses of
litigation. R.S., c. 259, s. 55; 1956, c. 48, s. 7.
Références by Senate or House of Commons

**56.** The Court, or any two of the judges
thereof, shall examine and report upon any
private bill or pétition for a private bill
presented to the Senate or House of Commons,
and referred to the Court under any rules or
orders made by the Senate or House of
Commons. R.S., c. 259, s. 56.
Habeas Corpus

**57.** (1) Every judge of the Court, except
in matters arising out of any claim for
extradition under any treaty, has concurrent
jurisdiction with the courts or judges of the
several provinces, to issue the writ of habeas
corpus ad subjiciendum, for the purpose of an
inquiry into the cause of commitment in any
criminal case under any Act of the Parliament
of Canada.
(2) If the judge refuses the writ or remands
the prisoner, an appeai lies to the Court. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 57.

**58.** In any habeas corpus matter before a
judge of the Suprême Court, or on any appeai
to the Suprême Court in any habeas corpus
matter, the Court or judge has the same power
to bail, discharge or commit the prisoner or
person, or to direct him to be detained in
custody or otherwise to deal with him as any
judge or justice of the peace having
in any such matters in any
of Canada. R.S., c. 259, s. 58.
may be 59. (j) Qn any appeal to the Court in any
'"'°
' habeas corpus matter the Court may by writ
or order direct that any prisoner or person on
whose behalf such appeal is made shall be
brought before the Court.
Prisoner need (2) Unless the Court so directs it is not
not be présent in ^ u
court necessary lor ru- such prisoner or person to be
présent in court but he shall remain in the
charge or custody to which he was committed
or had been remanded, or in which he was at
the time of giving the notice of appeal, unless
at liberty on bail, bj' order of a judge of the
court that refused the application or of a
judge of the Suprême Court. R.S.. c. 259,
s. 59.
WheD appeals 60. An appeal to the Suprême Court in
shall be heard
an}' habeas corpus matter shall be heard at an
early day, whether in or eut of the prescribed
sessions of the Court. R.S., c. 259, s. 60.
Certiorari
Writ of «rtioran 61. A writ of ccrtiorari may, by order of
the Court or a judge thereof, issue out of the
Suprême Court to bring up any papers or
other proceedings had or taken before any
court, judge or justice of the peace, and that
are considered necessary with a view to any
inquiry, appeal or other proceeding had or to
be had before the Court. R.S., c. 259, s. 61.
Cases removed from Provincial Courts
Powers exercised 52. (1) Where the législature of any prov-
with provincial consent of' ^"^^ °^ r/~<jL Canada has passed j an Act k ^ agreeing
législatures and providing that the Suprême Court has
jurisdiction in any of the foUowing cases,
namely :
  * (_a_) of suits, actions or proceedings in which
the parties thereto by their pleading hâve
raised the question of the validity of an
Act of the Parliament of Canada, when in
the opinion of a judge of the court in which
the same are pending such question is
material ;
(6) of suits, actions or proceedings in which
the parties thereto by their pleadings hâve
raised the question of the validitj' of an
Act of the législature of such province,
when in the opinion of a judge of the court
is material ;
the judge who has decided that such question
is material shall at the request of the parties,
and may without such request, if he thinks
fit, in any suit, action or proceeding within
the class or classes of cases in respect of which
such Act so agreeing and providing has been
passed, order the case to be removed to the
Suprême Court for the décision of such
question, whatever may be the value of the
matter in dispute, and the case shall be
removed accordingly.
(2) The Suprême Court shall thereupon
hear and détermine the question so raised
and shall remit the case with a copy of its
judgment thereon to the court or judge whence
it came to be then and there dealt with as to
justice appertains.
(3) There shall be no further appeal to the
Suprême Court on any point decided by it in
any such case, nor, unless the value of the
matter in dispute exceeds five hundred dollars,
on any other point in such case.
(4) This section applies only to cases of a
civil nature. R.S., c. 259, s. 62.

## PROCEDURE IN APPEALS

**63.** Proceedings in appeals shall, when not
otherwise provided for by this Act, or by the
Act providing for the appeal, or by the gênerai
rules and orders of the Suprême Court, be as
nearly as possible in conformity with the
présent practice of the Judicial Committee of
Her Majesty's Privy Council. R.S., c. 259,
s. 63.

**64.** (1) Except as otherwise provided, every
appeal shall be brought within sixty days
from the signing or entry or pronouncing of
the judgment appealed from, but the months
of July and August shall be excluded in the
computation of the said sixty days.
(2) The appellant may appeal from the
whole or any part of any judgment or order,
and if he intends to limit the appeal, the
notice of appeal shall so specify. R.S., c. 259,
64; 1956, c. 48, s. 8.

**55.** (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
^j^^ ^^^^^ proposed to be appealed from
extend the time within which the appeal
may be brought.
(2) In such case, the court or judge shall
impose such terms as to security or otherwise
as seem proper under the circumstances.
(3) This section does not apply to any
appeal in the case of an élection pétition.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
a judge of the Suprême Court may, on an
application for leave to appeal in forma
pauperis, allow an appeal by giving the
applicant leave to serve notice of appeal
although the time prescribed by section 64
has expired. R.S., c. 259, s. 65; 1956, c. 48,
s. 9.

**66.** (1) An appeal shall be brought by
  * (_a_) serving a notice of appeal on ail parties
directly affected, and
(6) depositing with the Registrar security
to the extent of five hundred dollars, to the
satisfaction of the court proposed to be
appealed from or a judge thereof or to the
satisfaction of the Suprême Court or a
judge thereof, that the appellant will
effectually prosecute the appeal and pay
such costs and damages as may be awarded
against him by the Suprême Court,
within the time prescribed by section 64 or
allowed under section 65.
(2) Whenever error in law is alleged, the
proceedings in the Suprême Court shall be in
the form of an appeal.
(3) The notice of appeal with évidence of
service thereof shall be filed with the Registrar
of the Suprême Court and a copy of the
notice shall be filed with the clerk or other
proper officer of the court appealed from.
1956, c. 48, s. 10.

**67.** The appeal shall be upon a case to be
stated by the parties, or, in the event of
différence, to be settled by the court appealed
from, or a judge thereof, and the case shall
set forth the judgment objected to and so
much of the pleadings, évidence, affidavits
and documents as is necessary to raise the
question for the décision of the Court ; but
the Court may, in its discrétion, on spécial
grounds, and by spécial leave, receive further
évidence upon any question of fact, such
évidence to be taken in the manner authorized
by this Act, either by oral examination in
Court, by affidavit, or by déposition, as the
Court may direct. R.S., c. 259, s. 67.

**68.** The clerk or other proper officer of the
court appealed from shall, upon payment to
him of the proper fées and expenses of
transmission, transmit the case, as soon as
may be after service upon him of the notice
of appeal, to the Registrar, and further
proceedings shall thereupon be had according
to the practice of the Suprême Court. 1956, c.
48, s. 11.

**69.** The provisions of this Act requiring
the deposit of security for costs do not apply
to appeals by or on behalf of the Crown or in
élection cases, in cases in the Exchequer
Court, in criminal cases or in proceedings for
or upon a writ of habeas corpus. 1956, c. 48,
s. 12.
Stay of Execution
1956, c. 48, s. 13.

**70.** (1) Upon filing and serving the notice
of appeal and depositing security as required
by section 66, exécution shall be stayed in the
original cause, except that
  * (_a_) where the judgment appealed from
directs an assignment or delivery of docu-
ments or Personal property, the exécution
of the judgment shall not be stayed until
the things directed to be assigned or
delivered hâve been brought into court, or
placed in the custody of such officer or
receiver as the court appoints, nor until
security has been given to the satisfaction
of the court appealed from, or of a judge
thereof, in such sum as the court or judge
directs, that the appellant will obey the
order or judgment of the Suprême Court ;
(6) where the judgment appealed from
directs the exécution of a conveyance or
any other instrument, the exécution of the
judgment shall not be stayed until the
instrument has been executed and deposited
with the proper officer of the court appealed
from, to abide the order or judgment of the
Suprême Court ;
  * (_c_) where the judgment appealed from
directs the sale or delivery of possession of
real property, chattels real or immovables,
the exécution of the judgment shall not be
stayed until security has been entered into
to the satisfaction of the court appealed
from, or a judge thereof, and in such
amount as the last mentioned court or
judge directs, that during the possession of
the property by the appellant he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any
waste on the property, and that if the
judgment is affirmed, he will pay the value
of the use and occupation of the property
from the time the appeal is brought until
delivery of possession thereof, and also, if
the judgment is for the sale of property and
the payment of a deficiency arising upon
the sale, that the appellant will pay the
deficiency ; and
  * (_d_) where the judgment appealed from
directs the payment of money, either as a
debt or for damages or costs, the exécution
of the judgment shall not be stayed until
the appellant has given security to the
satisfaction of the court appealed from, or
of a judge thereof, that if the judgment or
any part thereof is affirmed, the appellant
will pay the amount thereby directed to be
paid, or the part thereof as to which the
judgment is affirmed, if it is affirmed only
as to part, and ail damages awarded against
the appellant on such appeal.
(2) Where the court appealed from is a
court of appeal, and the assignment or
conveyance, document, instrument, property
or thing as aforesaid, has been deposited in
the custody of the proper officer of the court
in which the cause originated, the consent of
party desiring to appeal to the Suprême
that it shall so remain to abide the
(3) j^ a^y case in which exécution may be
stayed on the giving of security under this
section, the security may be given by the
same instrument whereby the security pre-
scribed in section 66 is given. R.S., c. 259, s.
70; 1956, c. 48, ss. 14, 15.

**71.** (1) When security has been deposited
as required by section 66, any judge of the
court appealed from may issue his fiât to the
sheriff, to whom any exécution on the
judgment has issued, to stay the exécution,
and the exécution shall be thereby stayed
whether a levy has been made under it or not.
(2) Where the court appealed from is a
•
. c , j ... l l
court of appeai, and exécution has been
already stayed in the case, the stay of
exécution continues without any new fiât,
until the décision of the appeal by the
Suprême Court.
(3) Unless a judge of the court appealed
from otherwise orders, no poundage shall be
allowed against the appellant, upon any
judgment appealed from, on which any
exécution is issued before the judge's fiât to
stay the exécution is obtained. R.S., c. 259, s.
71 ; 1956, c. 48, s. 16.

**72.** Where at the time of the receipt by the
sheriff of the fiât, or of a copy thereof, the
money has been made or received by him, but
not paid over to the part}- who issued the
exécution, the party appealing may demand
back from the sheriff the amount made or
received under the exécution, or so much
thereof as is in his hands not paid over, and
in default of payment by the sheriff, upon
such demand, the party appealing may
recover the same from him in an action for
money had and received, or by means of an
order or rule of the court appealed from. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 72.

**73.** Where the judgment appealed from
directs the delivery of perishable property,
the court appealed from, or a judge thereof,
may order the property to be sold and the
proceeds to be paid into court, to abide the
of the Suprême Court. R.S., c. 259,

**73.**
Discontinuance of Proceedings

**74.** (1) An appellant may discontinue his
by giving to the respondent a
notice entitled in the Suprême Court and in
the cause, and signed by the appellant, his
attorney or solicitor, stating that he discon-
tinues such proceedings.
(2) Upon such notice being given, the
respondent is at once entitled to the costs of
and occasioned by the proceedings in appeal,
and may, in the court of original jurisdiction,
either sign judgment for such costs or obtain
an order from such court, or a judge thereof,
for their payment, and may take ail further
proceedings in that court as if no appeal had
been brought. R.S., c. 259, s. 74.
Consent to Reversai of Judgment

**75.** A respondent may consent to the
reversai of the judgment appealed against, by
giving to the appellant a notice entitled in
the Suprême Court and in the cause, and
signed by the respondent, his attorney or
solicitor, stating that he consents to the
reversai of the judgment, and thereupon the
Court, or anj- judge thereof, shall pronounce
judgment of reversai as of course. R.S., c. 259,
s. 75.
Dismissal for Delay

**76.** (1) Where an appellant unduly delays
^^ prosecute his appeal, or fails to bring on
the appeal to be heard at the first session of
the Suprême Court, after the appeal is ripe
for hearing, the respondent may, on notice to
the appellant, move the Suprême Court, or a
judge thereof in chambers, for the dismissal
of the appeal.
(2) Such order shall thereupon be made as
the Court or judge deems just. R.S., c. 259,
s. 76.
Death of Parties

**77.** In the event of the death of one of
several appellants, pending the appeal to the
Suprême Court, a suggestion may be filed of
his death, and the proceedings may thereupon
be continued at the suit of and against the
surviving appellant, as if he were the sole
appellant. R.S., c. 259, s. 77.

**78.** (1) In the event of the death of a sole
appellant, or of ail the appellants, the légal
représentative of the sole appellant, or of the
last surviving appellant. may, by leave of the
Court or a judge, file a suggestion of the
death, and that he is such légal représentative,
and the proceedings may thereupon be
continued at the suit of and against such
légal représentative as the appellant.
(2) If no such Suggestion is made, the
respondent may proceed to an affirmance of
the judgment, according to the practice of the
Court, or take such other proceedings as he is
entitled to. R.S., c. 259, s. 78.

**79.** In the event of the death of one of
several respondents, a suggestion may be filed
of such death, and the proceedings may be
continued against the surviving respondents.
R.S., c. 259, s. 79.

**80.** A suggestion of the death of one of
several appellants or of a sole appellant or of
ail the appellants or of one of several
respondents, if untrue, may on motion be set
aside bv the Court or a judge. R.S., c. 259,
s. 80.

**81.** In the event of the death of a sole
respondent, or of ail the respondents, the
appellant may proceed, upon giving one
month's notice of the appeal and of his
intention to continue the appeal, to the
représentative of the deceased party, or if no
such notice can be given, then upon such
notice to the parties interested as a judge of
the Suprême Court directs. R.S., c. 259, s. 81.

**82.** In the event of the death of a sole
plaintiff or défendant before the judgment of
the court in which an action or an appeal is
pending is delivered, and if such judgment is
against the deceased party, his légal représent-
atives, on entering a suggestion of the death,
are entitled to proceed with and prosecute an
appeal in the Suprême Court, in the same
manner as if they were the original parties to
C.259, s. 82.

**83.** In the event of the death of a sole
or sole défendant before the judg-
of the court in which an action or an
appeal is pending is delivered, and if such
is in faveur of the deceased party,
the other party, upon entering a suggestion
of the death is entitled to prosecute an appeal
to the Suprême Court against the légal
représentatives of the deceased party, but the
time limited for appealing shall not run until
such légal représentatives are appointed. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 83.

## ENTRY OF CAUSES

**84.** Unless otherwise ordered by the Chief
• • •
j , r . i  j . i
Justice or one of the puisne judges at his
direction,
  * (_a_) the appeais set down for hearing shall
be entered by the Registrar on a list divided
into five parts, and numbered as follows:
Number one, Election Cases; Number two,
Western Provinces Cases; Number three,
Atlantic Provinces Cases; Number four,
Québec Province Cases; Number five,
Ontario Province Cases ; and the Registrar
shall enter ail Election Appeais on part
numbered one, ail appeais from the Yukon
Territory, the Northwest Territories and
the Provinces of British Columbia, Alberta,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba on part num-
bered two, ail appeais from the Provinces
of Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, New Bruns-
wick and Prince Edward Island on part
numbered three, ail appeais from the
Province of Québec on part numbered four,
and ail appeais from the Province of
Ontario on part numbered five ; and
  * (_b_) the appeais so entered shall be heard
and disposed of in the order in which they
are entered. 1956, c. 48, s. 17.

## EVIDENCE

**85.** Ail perso ns authorized to administer
affidavits to be used in any of the superior
courts of any province, may administer oaths,
affidavits and affirmations in such province
to be used in the Suprême Court. R.S., c. 259,
s. 85.
86, (1) The Governor in Council may, by
commission, from time to time, empower such
persons as he thinks necessary, within or out
of Canada, to administer oaths, and take and
receive affidavits, déclarations and affirma-
tions in or concerning any proceeding had or
to be had in the Suprême Court.
(2) Every such oath, affidavit, déclaration
or affirmation so taken or made is as valid
and of the like effect, to ail intents, as if it
had been administered, taken, sworn, made
or affirmed before the Court or before any
judge or compétent officer thereof in Canada.
(3) Every commissioner so empowered shall
be styled "a commissioner for administering
oaths in the Suprême Court of Canada". R.S.,
c. 259, s. 86.

**87.** Any oath, affidavit, affirmation or
déclaration concerning any proceeding had or
to be had in the Suprême Court administered,
sworn, affirmed or made out of Canada is as
valid and of like effect to ail intents as if it
had been administered, sworn, affirmed or
made before a commissioner appointed under
this Act, if it is so administered, sworn,
affirmed or made out of Canada before
  * (_a_) a commissioner authorized to take
affidavits to be used in Her Majesty's High
Court of Justice in England,
  * (_b_) a notary public and certified under his
hand and officiai seal,
  * (_c_) a mayor or chief magistrate of any city,
borough, or town corporate in any part of
the Commonwealth and Dépendent Ter-
ritories other than Canada, or in any
foreign country, and certified under the
common seal of such city, borough, or town
corporate,
  * (_d_) a judge of any court of superior
jurisdiction in any part of the Common-
wealth and Dépendent Territories other
than Canada, or
  * (_e_) a consul, vice-consul, acting consul, pro-
consul or consular agent of Her Majesty
exercising his f unctions in any foreign place
and certified under his officiai seal. R.S., c.
259, s. 87.
the signature of
  * (_a_) a commissioner appointed under this
Act,
(6) a person authorized to take affidavits
to be used in any of the superior courts of
any province,
  * (_c_) a commissioner authorized to receive
affidavits to be used in Her Majesty's High
Court of Justice in England,
  * (_d_) a notary public under his officiai seal,
  * (_e_) a mayor or chief magistrate of any city,
borough or town corporate in any part of
the Commonwealth and Dépendent Ter-
ritories other than Canada, or in a foreign
country, under the common seal of the
corporation,
  * (_f_) a judge of any court of superior
jurisdiction in an}' part of the Common-
wealth and Dépendent Territories other
than Canada under the seal of the court of
which he is such judge, or
{g) a consul, vice-consul, acting consul, pro-
consul or consular agent of Her Majesty
exercising his functions in any foreign place
under his officiai seal,
in testimony of any oath, affidavit, affirma-
tion or déclaration having been administered,
sworn, affirmed or made by or before him,
shall be admitted in évidence without proof
of the signature or seal or officiai character
of such person. R.S., c. 259, s. 88.
89, No informality in the heading or other
formai requisites of any affidavit, déclaration
or affirmation, made or taken before any
person under any provision of this or any
other Act, shall be an objection to its réception
in évidence in the Suprême Court, if the court
or judge before whom it is tendered thinks
proper to receive it ; and if it is actually sworn
to, declared or affirmed by the person making
it before any person duly authorized thereto,
and is received in évidence, no such informal-
ity shall be set up to defeat an indictment for
perjury. R.S., c. 259, s. 89.

**90.** (1) If any party to any proceeding had
or to be had in the Suprême Court is desirous
of having therein the évidence of any person,
whether a party or not, or whether résident
within or out of Canada, the Court or any
judge thereof, if in its or his opinion it is,
owing to the absence, âge or infirmity, or the
distance of the résidence of such person from
the place of trial, or the expense of taking his
évidence othenvise, or for any other reason,
convenient to do so, may, upon the application
of such party, order the examination of any
such person upon oath, by interrogatories or
othenvise, before the Registrar of the Court,
or any commissioner for taking affidavits in
the Court, or any other person or persons to
be named in such order, or may order the
issue of a commission under the seal of the
Court for the examination.
(2) The Court or a judge may, by the same
or anj- subséquent order, give ail such
directions concerning the time, place and
manner of the examination, the attendance
of the witnesses and the production of papers
thereat, and ail matters connected therewith,
as appears reasonable. R.S., c. 259, s. 90.

**91.** Ever\- person authorized to take the
examination of any witness pursuant to this
Act, shall take such examination upon the
oath of the witness, or upon affirmation, in
any case in which affirmation instead of oath
is allowed bv law. R.S., c. 259, s. 91.

**92.** The Suprême Court, or a judge thereof,
may, if it is considered for the ends of justice
expédient to do so, order the further exami-
nation, before either the Court or a judge
thereof, or other person, of any witness, and
if the party on whose behalf the évidence is
tendered neglects or refuses to obtain such
further examination, the Court or judge, in
its or his discrétion, may décline to act on the
évidence. R.S., c. 259, s. 92.

**93.** Such notice of the time and place of
examination as is prescribed in the order,
shall be given to the adverse party. R.S., c.
s. 93.

**94.** Where an order is made for the
of a witness, and a copy of the
together with a notice of the time and
of attendance, signed by the person or
of the persons to take the examination,
has been duly served on the witness within
Canada, and he has been tendered his légal
fées for attendance and travel, his refusai or
neglect to attend for examination or to answer
any proper question put to him on examina-
tion, or to produce any paper that he has
been notified to produce shall be deemed a
contempt of court and may be punished by
the same process as other contempts of court ;
but he shall not be compelled to produce any
paper that he would not be compelled to
produce, or to answer any question that he
would not be bound to answer in court. R.S.,
c. 259, s. 94.

**95.** Where the parties in any case pending
in the Court consent in writing that a witness
may be examined within or out of Canada by
interrogatories or otherwise, the consent and
the proceedings had thereunder are as valid
in ail respects as if an order had been made
and the proceedings had thereunder. R.S., c.
259, s. 95.

**96.** ^11 examinations taken in Canada
pursuant to this Act shall be returned to the
Court ; and the dépositions, certified under
the hands of the person or one of the persons
taking them, may, without further proof, be
used in évidence, saving ail just exceptions.
R.S., c. 259, s. 96.

**97.** Ail examinations taken out of Canada
pursuant to this Act shall be proved by
affidavit of the due taking of the examina-
tions, sworn before some commissioner or
other person authorized under this or any
other Act to take such affidavit, at the place
where such examination has been taken, and
shall be returned to the Court ; and the
dépositions so returned, together with such
affidavit, and the order or commission, closed
under the hand and seal of the person or one
of the persons authorized to take the
examination, may, without further proof, be
used in évidence, saving ail just exceptions.
R.S., c. 259, s. 97.

**98.** Where any examination has been
returned, any party may give notice of such
return, and no objection to the examination
being read has effect, unless taken within the
time and in the manner prescribed by gênerai
order. R.S., c. 259, s. 98.

## GENERAL

**99.** (1) The process of the Court runs
throughout Canada, and shall be tested in
the name of the Chief Justice, or in case of a
vacancy in the office of chief justice, in the
name of the senior puisne judge of the Court,
and shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county or other judicial division into which
anj' province is divided.
(2) The sheriffs of the said respective
counties or divisions are ex officio officers of
the Suprême Court, and shall perform the
duties and functions of sheriffs in connection
with the Court.
(3) In any case where the sheriff is
disqualified, the process shall be directed to
anj' of the coroners of the county or district.
R.S., c. 259, s. 99.

**100.** Every commissioner for administering
oaths in the Suprême Court, who résides
within Canada, may take and receive acknowl-
edgments or recognizances of bail, and ail
other recognizances in the Suprême Court.
R.S., c. 259, s. 100.

**101.** An order in the Suprême Court for
payment of money, whether for costs or
otherwise, may be enforced by such writs of
exécution as the Court prescribes. R.S., c. 259,
s. 101.

**102.** No attachment as for contempt shall
.^^^^ -^ ^j^^ Suprême Court for the non-
payment of money only. R.S., c. 259, s. 102.

**103.** (1) The judges of the Suprême Court,
or any five of them, may make gênerai rules
and orders
  * (_a_) for regulating the procédure of and in
the Suprême Court, and the bringing of
cases before it from courts appealed from
or otherwise, and for the effectuai exécution
and working of this Act, and the attainment
of the intention and objects thereof;
(6) for allowing appeals in forma pauperis
by leave, notwithstanding the provisions of
this or any other Act requiring the giving
of security for costs, and for allowing a
respondent leave to défend in forma pauper-
is:
  * (_c_) for empowering the Registrar to do any
such thing and transact any such business
as is specified in the rules or orders, and to
exercise any authority and jurisdiction in
respect of the rules or orders as is now or
may be hereafter done, transacted or
exercised by a judge of the Court sitting in
chambers in virtue of any statute or custom
or by the practice of the Court ;
  * (_d_) for fixing the fées and costs to be taxed
and allowed to, and received and taken by,
and the rights and duties of the officers of
the Court ;
  * (_e_) for awarding and regulating costs in
such Court in favour of and against the
Crown, as well as the subject ; and
(J) with respect to matters coming within
the jurisdiction of the Court, in regard to
références to the Court by the Governor in
Council, and in particular with respect to
investigations of questions of fact involved
in any such référence.
(2) Such rules and orders may extend to
any matter of procédure or otherwise not
provided for by this Act, but for which it is
found necessary to provide, in order to ensure
the proper working of this Act and the better
attainment of the objects thereof.
(3) AH such rules as are not inconsistent
with the express provisions of this Act hâve
force and effect as if herein enacted.
(4) Copies of ail such rules and orders shall
be laid before both Houses of Parliament at
the session next after the making thereof.
R.S., c. 259, s. 103; 1956, c. 48, s. 18.

**104.** Any moneys or costs awarded to the
Crown shall be paid to the Receiver General,
and the Minister of Finance shall cause to be
paid out of any unappropriated moneys
forming part of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, any moneys or costs awarded to any
person against the Crown. R.S., c. 259, s. 104;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

**105.** In any proceeding to which Her
Majesty is a party, either as represented by
the Attorney General of Canada or otherwise,
coâts adjudged to Her Majesty shall not be
disallowed or reduced upon taxation merely
because the solicitor or the counsel who earned
such costs, or in respect of whose services the
costs are charged, was a salaried officer of the
Crown performing such services in the dis-
charge of his duty and remunerated therefor
by his salary, or for that or any other reason
not entitled to recover any costs from the
Crown in respect of the services so rendered,
and the costs recovered by or on behalf of
Her Majesty in any such case shall be paid
into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. R.S., c.
259, s. 105.

**106.** (1) AH fees payable to the Registrar
under this Act shall be paid by means of
stamps, issued for that purpose by the Minister
of National Revenue, who shall regulate the
sale thereof.
(2) The proceeds of the sale of such stamps
shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue
Fund. R.S., c. 259, s. 106.
