
**1.** This Act may be cited as the Surplus
Crown Assets Act. R.S., c. 260, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the
Corporation ;
"Corporation" means the corporation estab-
lished by this Act ;
"government department" means a depart-
ment of the Government of Canada or a
board, commission, corporation or other
body that is an agent of Her Majesty in
right of Canada, but does not include the
National Railways as defined in chapter 39
of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952,
the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation,
the Bank of Canada, the Industrial Devel-
opment Bank, Air Canada or any corpora-
tion incorporated under the Air Canada
Act, or the National Harbours Board ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Supply and
Services ;
"surplus Crown assets" means the property
that is included in a report made to the
Minister under section 3 and has not
subsequently been deleted from the report
with the authority of the Minister or
disposed of pursuant to this Act. R.S., c.
260, s. 2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 103.

**3.** (1) Except as provided in subsection (2),
whenever a government department déter-
mines that property of Her Majesty in right
Canada in its custody or under its control
administration is surplus to its require-
it shall make a report of such property
to the Minister.
(2) The following property need not be
included in a report made under subsection
(1), except to such extent as may be specified
by order of the Governor in Council :
  * (_a_) agricultural or dairy products or live-
stock or livestock products, other than those
in the custody or under the control or
administration of the Department of
National Defence;
(6) Personal property acquired or produced
by a board, commission, corporation or
other body for disposai pursuant to an Act
of Parliament or order of the Governor in
Council ;
  * (_c_) lands situated in the Yukon Territory
or the Northwest Territories and under the
control, management or administration of
the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern
Development ;
  * (_d_) lands under the control, management
or administration of the Minister of Mines
and Resources on the 31st day of December
1949, or under the control, management or
administration of a Minister by virtue of
the Indian Act, the National Parks Act or
the Forestry Development and Research Act ;
  * (_e_) lands under the control, management or
administration of the Minister of Transport,
other than those acquired pursuant to the
Acts mentioned in section 2 of The War
Appropriation Act, No. 2, 1944 ;
if) lands authorized to be disposed of under
the Vétérans' Land Act, the Soldier Settlement
Act, the Central Mortgage and Housing
Corporation Act or the Housing Acts as
defined in the Central Mortgage and Housing
Corporation Act.
(3) Notwithstanding any Act or order in
council enacted or passed before the llth day
of July 1944, no government department shall
dispose of any surplus Crown assets except in
accordance with this Act. R.S., c. 260, s. 3;
1953-54, c. 4, s. 12; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.

**4.** Every government department shall
pursuant to the order of the Minister
the Corporation. R.S., c. 260, s. 4.

**5.** With spécifie or gênerai authority from
the Governor in Council, the Minister may
  * (_a_) sell, exchange, lease, lend or otherwise
dispose of or deal with surplus Crown assets
either gratuitoush- or for a considération
and upon such terms and subject to such
conditions as he may consider désirable ;
(6) hold, manage, operate, finish, assemble,
store, transport , repair, maintain and service
surplus Crown assets ;
  * (_c_) restore to its original condition any
propertj' that has been made available to
Her Majesty and settle anj' claim in
connection therewith;
  * (_d_) approve the transfer of surplus Crown
assets from one government department to
another, subjectio such terms and conditions
as he may consider désirable ;
  * (_e_) authorize a government department to
dispose of surplus Crown assets in such
manner, upon such terms and subject to
such conditions as he may consider désir-
able;
(/) make such orders and issue such direc-
tions as he may deem necessary or expédient
to provide for the safety and préservation
of surplus Crown assets ;
  * (_gf_) direct any person to furnish, within such
time as he may specify, such information
with regard to surplus Crown assets as he
may specify ;
  * (_h_) engage or make use of the services of
any person in carrying out any of the
purposes of this Act ;
(î) authorize a government department to
amend a report made under section 3 by
deleting therefrom a référence to any
specified property ; and
0) do any other thing the Governor in
Council may consider to be incidental to,
or necessary or expédient for, carrying out
the objects of this Act. R.S., c. 260, s. 5.

**6.** (1) There shall be a corporation to be
known as Crown Assets Disposai Corporation.
(2) The Corporation shall consist of a board
not less than six directors appointed by the
Minister with the approval of the Governor
in Council.
(3) The Corporation is a body politic and
corporate having capacity to contract and to
sue and be sued in its name ; and the
Corporation shall be and be deemed to be for
ail purposes an agent of Her Majesty in right
of Canada.
(4) Actions, suits or other légal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Corporation on behalf of
Her Majesty, whether in its name or in the
name of Her Majesty, may be brought or
taken by or against the Corporation in the
name of the Corporation in any court that
would hâve jurisdiction if the Corporation
were not an agent of Her Majesty.
(5) The head office of the Corporation shall
be at Ottawa or in such other place as the
Minister may from time to time détermine.
(6) The Corporation may establish branches
and appoint agents in Canada and may also,
with the approval of the Minister, establish
branches and appoint agents outside Canada.
(7) The Corporation is responsible to, and
subject to the direction and control of, the
Minister. R.S., c. 260, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The Board, with the approval of the
Minister, shall designate one of the directors
to be the Président and one of the directors
to be the Vice-Président of the Corporation.
(2) Each director shall be appointed for a
term of three years.
(3) Retiring directors are eligible for re-
appointment.
(4) fhe Govemor in Council maj', without
cause, remove a director at any time during
his term.
(5) Jn the absence of the Président, the
Vice-Président shall act as chairman and, in
the absence of the Président and Vice-
Président, another director designated by
those présent shall act as chairman.
(6) A décision of the majority of the
directors présent and constituting a quorum
is a décision of the Corporation, and in the
event of a tie, the Président or other director
acting as chairman has the casting vote.
(7) In the event of a casual vacancy
occurring on the Board, the Minister, with
the approval of the Governor in Council, may
appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(8) The Board, with the approval of the
Minister, may fix the President's salary and
the fées to be paid to directors for attending
meetings.
(9) Every director is entitled to be reim-
bursed in respect of his actual disbursements
for expenses reasonably incurred in connection
with the discharge of his duties under this
Act.
(10) No director and no person acting for,
on behalf of, or under the authority of the
Board or a director is liable to any person for
any act or omission that the director or person
acting in good faith reasonably believed to
hâve been required or authorized by or
pursuant to this Act.
(11) Every director shall, before acting as
such, take before a justice of the peace or
commissioner for taking affidavits, and file
with the secretary of the Corporation, an oath
of fidelity and secrecy in the form set out in
the schedule. R.S., c. 260, s. 7.

**8.** (1) The Minister may authorize the
Corporation to exercise or perform any or ail
of the functions, powers or duties of the
Minister under section 5.
(2) Subject to spécifie or gênerai instructions
of the Minister, the Corporation may
  * (_a_) convert surplus Crown assets to basic
materials ;
  * (_b_) purchase, lease or otherwise acquire real
or Personal property for the purpose of its
opérations and sell, lease or otherwise
dispose of such property ; and
  * (_c_) do such other acts and things as the
Board may deem incidental or conducive
to the attainment of its objects or the
exercise of its power. R.S., c. 260, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The Corporation may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
such by-laws as the Board may deem necessary
or expédient to enable it to discharge the
duties imposed upon it by this Act, and,
without limiting the generality of the forego-
ing, it may make by-laws,
  * (_a_) to provide for an executive committee
of the Board to exercise such powers as the
by-laws may specify ; and
(6) to provide for the calling of meetings of
the Board or the executive committee and
the number of persons who shall constitute
a quorum in each case.
(2) The Corporation may employ such
officers, clerks and employées for such
purposes and on such terms and conditions
and pay them such rémunération as the Board
may décide ; and every officer, clerk and
employée of the Corporation shall, before
entering upon his duties, take before a justice
of the peace or a commissioner for taking
affidavits, and file with the secretary of the
Corporation, an oath of fidelity and secrecy
in the form set out in the schedule. R.S., c.
260, s. 9.
IQ. The Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the Minister, may author-
ize the Minister of Finance to provide for
payments or advances of working capital to
the Corporation from time to time from any
unappropriated moneys in the Consolidated
Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 260, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Corporation shall keep one or
more bank accounts with such chartered bank
or banks in Canada as may from time to time
be approved by the Governor in Council and,
with the approval of the Minister, may keep
one or more bank accounts outside Canada;
and ail moneys from time to time received by
the Corporation shall be deposited in the said
account or accounts.
(2) Ail moneys deposited in the Corpora-
tion's bank accounts except
  * (_a_) moneys paid or advanced to the Corpo-
the Corporation during any period as the
Governor in Council may from time to time
fix to be retained to meet administrative
costs or other expenses of the Corporation,
shall be transferred or deposited to the crédit
of the Receiver General on réquisition by the
Minister of Finance but, if no such réquisition
is made, on a day not later than the 15th day
of the month following receipt thereof by the
Corporation. R.S., c. 260, s. 11.

**12.** Subject to section 11, the Corporation
may administer ail moneys received by it
exclusively in exercising the powers conferred
on it by or pursuant to this Act. R.S., c. 260,
s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Corporation shall establish and
maintain an accounting system satisfactory
to the Minister.
(2) The Corporation shall render to the
Minister detailed statements of its receipts
and expenditures at such times and for such
periods as he may specify.
(3) Ail books of account, records, bank books
and papers of the Corporation shall at ail
times be open to audit and inspection bj' the
Minister or any person thereunto authorized
by him.
(4) xhe accounts of the Corporation shall
^^ audited by the Auditor General of Canada
and the audited statements of such accounts
shall be included in the Corporation's annual
report.
(5) The fiscal yeaf of the Corporation shall
end on the 31st day of March in each year.
R.S., c. 260, s. 13.

**14.** The Corporation shall, as soon as
possible after the 31st day of March in each
year, and in any event within three months
thereof, submit an annual report to the
Minister in such form as the Auditor General
may prescribe, containing in reasonable détail
particulars of surplus Crown assets, sold or
otherwise disposed of during the accounting
period, and the Minister shall lay the report
before Parliament. R.S., c. 260, s. 14.

**15.** No statute relating to insolvency or
winding-up of corporations applies to the
Corporation and the affairs of the Corporation
not be wound up unless Parliament so
provides. R.S., c. 260, s. 15.

**16.** (1) Where any person who at the time
of his appointment or employment under or
pursuant to this Act was a civil servant or an
employée in the Public Service is retired from
his office or position under this Act for any
reason other than that of misconduct, he is
eligible for re-appointment in the Public
Service.
(2) Any person who at the time of his
appointment or employment under or pur-
suant to this Act held a position in the Civil
Service or was an employée within the
meaning of the Civil Service Act or the Public
Service Employment Act, retains and is eligible
to receive ail the benefits, except salary as an
employée in the Public Service, that he would
hâve been eligible to receive had he remained
an employée in the Public Service.
(3) The Government Employées Compensa-
tion Act applies to ail persons appointed or
employed under or pursuant to this Act, and
for the purposes of the said Act such persons
shall be deemed to be "employées" as defined
by the said Act. R.S., c. 260, s. 16.

**17.** Either the Minister or any person or
persons thereunto generally or specifically
authorized by the Minister or the Corporation
under its corporate seal and the hands of its
duly authorized officers may exécute, on
behalf of Her Majesty, any deed, contract or
document transferring title to, or otherwise
dealing with or relating to the disposition of
surplus Crown assets, other than a grant of
land ; and when any such document has been
so executed it is valid and binding upon Her
Majesty. R.S., c. 260, s. 17.

**18.** The Governor in Council may
  * (_a_) make such orders as he may deem
necessary or désirable with référence to the
organization, administration or manage-
ment of the Corporation and confer on the
Corporation additional powers and duties;
and
(6) make or issue such orders, rules and
régulations as may be deemed necessary or
désirable to assist the Minister to exercise
and perform the duties conferred or imposed
upon him by or pursuant to this Act. R.S.,
c. 260, s. 18.
Offence 19. Every person who contravenes any
order, rule or régulation made or issued by
the Governor in Council or by the Minister
with the authority of the Governor in Council
under this Act is guilty of an offence and
liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or imprison-
ment for a period not exceeding six months,
or to both. R.S., c. 260, s. 19.

## SCHEDULE

## OATH OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY OF EMPLOYEE

## OF CROWN ASSETS DISPOSAL CORPORATION
I, , solemnly and sincerely swear that I will
faithfully and hoaestly fulfil the duties that devolve upon me
and shall not divulge any knowledge or information obtained
by me in the course of my employment to any one not legally
entitled thereto unless expressly authorized by my superior
officers.

## OATH OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY OF DIRECTOR

## OR OFFICER OF CROWN ASSETS DISPOSAL COR-

## PORATION
I, , do solemnly swear that I will faithfully,
truly and to the best of my judgment, skill and ability exécute
and perform the duties required of me as a Director or OfEcer,
as the case may be, of Crown Assets Disposai Corporation.
I further solemnly swear that I will not communicate or
allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled
thereto any information relating to the affairs of the Corpora-
tion, nor will I allow any such person to inspect or hâve access
to any books, documents or records belonging to or in the
possession of the Corporation and relating to its business.
R.S., c. 260, Sch.
