
## CHAPTER S-5
An Act to provide for the establishment of a
Science Council of Canada

## SHORT TITLE
i. This Act may be cited as the Science
Council of Canada Act. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Council" means the Science Council of
Canada established pursuant to section 3 ;
"Minister" means such member of the Queen s
Privy Council for Canada as may be
designated by the Governor in Council to
act as the Minister for the purposes of this
Act. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 2.

## SCIENCE COUNCIL

**3.** A corporation is hereby established to
be called the Science Council of Canada
consisting of not more than
  * (_a_) twenty-five members chosen from
among persons having a specialized interest
in science or technology, and
  * (_b_) four associate members chosen from
among officers or employees of Her Majesty
employed in departments or agencies of the
Government of Canada,
to be appointed by the Governor in Council
as provided in section 4. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

**4.** (1) Each of the members of the Council
shall be appointed to hold office for a term
of not more than three years, except that of
those first appointed not less than one-third
shall be appointed for a term of two years
not less than one-third shall be appointed
a term of four years.
(2) Each of the associate members of the
shall be appointed to hold office
pleasure. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council shall
appoint one of the members to be chairman
of the Council and one of the members to be
vice-chairman of the Council for such term,
not exceeding three years, as is fixed by the
Governor in Council.
(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity
of the chairman, or if the office of chairman
is vacant, the vice-chairman shall act as
chairman. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 5.

**6.** ^ retiring chairman, vice-chairman or
other member is eligible for re-appointment
to the Council in the same or another capacity.
1966-67, c. 19, s. 6.

**7.** (1) The chairman and vice-chairman of
the Council shall be paid such remuneration
and expenses as are authorized by the
Governor in Council.
(2) The members and associate members of
the Council, other than the chairman and
vice-chairman, shall serve without remunera
tion but each such member and associate
member is entitled to be paid reasonable
travelling and other expenses incurred by him
while absent from his ordinary place of
residence in the course of his duties under
this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a mem
ber of the Council other than the chairman
and vice-chairman may, for any period during
which he performs with the approval of the
Council any duties on behalf of the Council
in addition to his ordinary duties as a member
thereof, be paid such remuneration therefor
as may be authorized by the Governor in
Council. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

**8.** A majority of the members constitutes a
quorum of the Council. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 8.

**9.** (1) The head office of the Council shall
be in the National Capital Region described
in the schedule to the National Capital Act.
(2) The Council may meet at such times as
it deems necessary. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

**10.** (1) Subject to the approval of the
Governor in Council, the Council may make
by-laws for the regulation of its proceedings
and generally for the performance of its
functions and may establish special, standing
or other committees of the Council.
(2) Any by-law made pursuant to subsection
(1), establishing a committee of the Council
may provide for the membership thereon of
persons other than members of the Council,
in addition to members of the Council. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 70.

## DUTIES

**11.** It shall be the duty of the Council to
assess in a comprehensive manner Canada s
scientific and technological resources, require
ments and potentialities and to make recom
mendations thereon to the Minister; and in
particular it shall be the duty of the Council
to give consideration to, and make reports
and recommendations to the Minister on,
  * (_a_) the adequacy of the scientific and
technological research and development
being carried on in Canada ;
  * (_b_) the priorities that should be assigned in
Canada to specific areas of scientific and
technological research ;
  * (_c_) the effective development and utiliza
tion of scientific and technological man
power in Canada ;
  * (_d_) long term planning for scientific and
technological research and development in
Canada ;
  * (_e_) the factors involved in Canada s partici
pation in international scientific or techno
logical affairs ;
  * (_f_) the responsibilities of departments and
agencies of the Government of Canada, in
relation to those of universities, private
companies and other organizations, in
furthering science and technology in
Canada ;
  * (_g_) the statistical and other information on
scientific and technological research and
development that should be obtained in
order to provide a proper basis for the
formulation of government policy in rela
tion to science and technology in Canada ;
and
  * (_h_) the best means of developing and
maintaining cooperation and the exchange
of information between the Council and
other public or private organizations con
cerned with the scientific, technological,
economic or social aspects of life in Canada.
1966-67, c. 19, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Minister may refer to the
Council for its consideration and advice such
matters relating to science and technology in
Canada or otherwise relating to the operation
of this Act as he thinks fit.
(2) The Council shall investigate and report
to the Minister on all matters referred to it
pursuant to subsection (1) and shall make
such recommendations to the Minister in
respect thereof as it deems appropriate. 1966-
67, c. 19, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Council shall on its own
initiative, or if directed to do so by the
Minister, conduct such studies, inquiries and
other undertakings as may be necessary with
respect to any matter coming within sections
11 and 12 or with respect to any other matter
relating to the carrying out of its duties under
those sections, and shall report to, advise or
make recommendations to the Minister with
respect thereto as the circumstances require.
(2) The Council may cause to be published
such studies and reports prepared for the use
of the Council as it sees fit. 1966-67, c. 19, s.
13; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

## GENERAL

**14.** (j) The Council may
  * (_a_) appoint such officers and employees as
are necessary for the proper conduct of the
work of the Council ; and
  * (_b_) prescribe the duties of such officers and
employees and, subject to the approval of
the Treasury Board, prescribe the conditions
of their employment.
(2) The officers and employees of the
Council appointed as provided in subsection
(1) shall be paid such salaries and expenses as
(3) The Council may engage for temporary
periods or for specific projects persons having
a technical or specialized knowledge of any
matter relating to the work of the Council, to
advise and assist the Council in the perfor
mance of its duties under this Act and such
persons shall receive such remuneration for
their services and such expenses as the
Treasury Board may authorize. 1968-69, c. 28,
s. 70.

**15.** (1) The Council is for all purposes an
agent of Her Majesty and its powers may be
exercised only as an agent of Her Majesty.
(2) The Council may on behalf of Her
Majesty enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in its own name.
(3) Any property acquired by the Council
is the property of Her Majesty and title
thereto may be vested in the name of Her
Majesty or in the name of the Council.
(4) Actions, suits or other legal proceedings
in respect of any right or obligation acquired
or incurred by the Council on behalf of Her
Majesty, whether in its name or in the name
of Her Majesty, may be brought or taken by
or against the Council in the name of the
Council in any court that would have
jurisdiction if the Council were not an agent
of Her Majesty. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

**16.** All amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses under this Act
including expenses of administration shall be
paid out of moneys appropriated by Parlia
ment for the purpose. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.
J7 m The Public Service Superannuation Act
does not a PP J y to the members of the Council
unless in the case of any such member the
Governor in Council otherwise directs. 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 70.

**18.** The accounts and financial transactions
of the Council shall be audited annually by
the Auditor General of Canada, and a report
of the audit shall be made to the Council and
to the Minister. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 70.

**19.** The chairman of the Council shall,
three months after the termination of
each fiscal year, transmit to the Minister a
report of the operations of the Council for
that fiscal year and the Minister shall cause
such report to be laid before Parliament
within fifteen days after the receipt thereof,
or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any
of the first fifteen days next thereafter that
Parliament is sitting. 1966-67, c. 19, s. 17.
