
## CHAPTER S-7
An Act respecting the testing, inspection and
sale of seeds

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Seeds Act.
1959, c. 35, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"analyst" means a person appointed or
designated as an analyst pursuant to section
5;
"grade name" includes any mark, description
or designation of a grade ;
"inspector" means a person appointed or
designated as an inspector pursuant to
section 5 ;
"label" includes any legend, word, mark,
symbol or design applied or attached to,
included in, belonging to or accompanying
any seed or package ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Agriculture ;
"package" includes a sack, bag, barrel, case or
any other container in which seed is placed
or packed ;
"place" includes any vehicle, vessel, railway
car or aircraft ;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation;
"seed" means the seed of any cereal, forage,
legume, turf, root, vegetable, tobacco, fibre
or oil bearing crop grown, sold or represented
for sale for the purposes of propagation ;
"sell" includes sell, offer for sale, expose for
sale, have in possession for sale and
distribute. 1959, c. 35, s. 2.

## GENERAL

**3.**   (1) ^ Except as provided by the regula-
, 111
tlons no person shall
  * (_a_) sell, import into Canada or export out
of Canada any seed unless the seed conforms
to the prescribed standard and is marked
and packed and the package labelled as
prescribed, or
(6) sell or advertise for sale in Canada or
import into Canada seed of a variety that
is not prescribed by the Minister for sale or
importation into Canada.
(2) No person shall
  * (_a_) sell, import into Canada or export from
Canada seed under a grade name or
designation so closely resembling a grade
name established under subsection 4(1) as
to be likely to be mistaken therefor, or
(6) apply to seed or to a package containing
seed a grade name or other designation so
closely resembling a grade name established
under subsection 4(1) as to be likely to be
mistaken therefor,
unless the seed meets the requirements
prescribed for the grade, has been graded and
inspected as required by the regulations and
is marked and packed and the package
labelled in the prescribed manner. 1959, c. 35,
s. 3.

## REGULATIONS

**4.** (i) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) establishing grades with appropriate
grade names for seeds, and providing, in
grades requiring varietal purity, for the use
of the standards established by the Canadi
an Seed Growers Association ;
  * (_b_) prescribing the terms and conditions
under which and the manner in which seed
crops may be inspected or seeds may be
graded or tested ;
  * (_c_) prescribing the minimum standards of
purity, germination, quality and disease for
seeds ;
  * (_d_) respecting the packing and marking of
seeds and the marking and labelling of the
packages thereof ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the terms and conditions
under which variety names of seeds may be
used;
  * (_f_) for exempting any seed or any person
from the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act ;
  * (_g_) respecting the taking of samples and
the testing of seeds for the purposes of this
Act;
  * (_h_) respecting the fees that may be charged
for any services provided under this Act ;
  * (_f_) prescribing anything else that by this
Act is required to be prescribed ; and
0) generally, for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act.
(2) The Minister may, by order, prescribe
  * (_a_) the varieties of seeds that may be sold
in Canada or imported into Canada, and
(6) the species of plants the seeds of which
he deems are weed seeds for the purpose of
establishing grades under this Act. 1959, c.
35, s. 4.

## ADMINISTRATION

**5.** (1) The inspectors and analysts neces
sary for the administration and enforcement
of this Act shall be appointed under the
Public Service Employment Act.
(2) The Minister may designate any person
as an inspector or analyst for the purposes of
this Act. 1959, c. 35, s. 5.

**6.** (1) An inspector may at any reasonable
believes there is any seed to which this Act
applies and may open any package found
therein that he has reason to believe
contains any such seed and may examine it
and take samples thereof, and
(6) require any person to produce for
inspection or for the purpose of obtaining
copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any
books, shipping bills, bills of lading or other
documents or papers with respect to the
administration of this Act or the regulations.
(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a
prescribed certificate of his appointment or
designation and on entering any place under
subsection (1) shall, if so required, produce
the certificate to the person in charge thereof.
(3) The owner or person in charge of any
place described in subsection (1) and every
person found therein shall give an inspector
all reasonable assistance in his power to
enable the inspector to carry out his duties
and functions under this Act and shall furnish
him with such information with respect to the
administration of this Act and the regulations
as he may reasonably require. 1959, c. 35, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Whenever an inspector believes on
reasonable grounds that this Act has been
violated, he may seize the seed or package by
means of or in relation to which he reasonably
believes the violation was committed.
(2) Any seed or package seized pursuant to
subsection (1) shall not be detained after
  * (_a_) the provisions of this Act and the
regulations have, in the opinion of the
inspector, been complied with, or
(6) the expiration of six months from the
day of seizure,
unless before that time proceedings have been
instituted in respect of the violation, in which
event the seed or package may be detained
until the proceedings are finally concluded.
forfeiture is directed by the court.
(4) The Governor in Council may make
regulations
  * (_a_) respecting the detention of anything
seized under this section and for preserving
or safeguarding anything so detained, and
(6) respecting the disposition of anything
forfeited under this section. 1959, c. 35, s. 7.

**8.** (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder
an inspector in the carrying out of his duties
or functions under this Act.
(2) No person shall make a false or
misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to an inspector or other official
engaged in carrying out his duties or functions
under this Act. 1959, c. 35, s. 8.

## OFFENCE
9, (j) Every person who, or whose employee
or agent, has violated any provision of this
Act or any regulation made under subsection
7(4) is guilty of an offence and is liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both, or
(6) upon conviction on indictment to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.
(2) In a prosecution for an offence under
i{ is sufficient roof of tne offence
this Act &amp;gt; P
to establish that it was committed by an
employee or agent of the accused whether or
not the employee or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence. 1959, c. 35, s.

**9.**

**10.** No proceedings by way of summary
conviction in respect of an offence under this
Act shall be instituted
the variety name or purity of variety of a
seed ; or
(6) more than six months after the time
when the subject-matter of the proceedings
arose, where the offence is an offence other
than that described in paragraph (a). 1959,
c. 35, s. 10.

## EVIDENCE

**11.** (1) A certificate of an analyst stating
that he has examined a substance or a sample
submitted to him by an inspector and stating
the result of his examination is, in a
prosecution for an offence under this Act,
evidence of the statement contained in the
certificate.
(2) In a prosecution for a violation of this
Act, a document purporting to be the
certificate of an analyst shall be received in
evidence, without proof of the signature of
the person by whom it purports to be signed
and without proof of his official position.
1959, c. 35, s. 11.

**12.** A complaint or information in respect
of an offence under this Act may be heard,
tried or determined by a magistrate or a
justice if the accused is resident or carrying
on business within his territorial jurisdiction,
although the matter of the complaint or
information did not arise in that territorial
jurisdiction. 1959, c. 35, s. 12.
