House of Commons Act. R.S., c. 249, s. 1.

## DEMISE OF THE CROWN

**2.** No parliament of Canada shall deter
mine or be dissolved by the demise of the
Crown, but such parliament shall continue,
and may meet, convene and sit, proceed and
act, notwithstanding the demise of the Crown,
in the same manner as if such demise had not
happened. R.S., c. 249, s. 2.

**3.** Nothing in section 2 alters or abridges
the power of the Crown to prorogue or dissolve
the Parliament of Canada. R.S., c. 249, s. 3.

## PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF MEMBERS

## AND OFFICERS

**4.** The Senate and the House of Commons
respectively, and the members thereof respec
tively, hold, enjoy and exercise,
  * (_a_) such and the like privileges, immunities
and powers as, at the time of the passing of
the British North America Act, 1867, were
held, enjoyed and exercised by the Com
mons House of Parliament of the United
Kingdom, and by the members thereof, so
far as the same are consistent with and not
repugnant to that Act ; and
(6) such privileges, immunities and powers
as are from time to time defined by Act of
the Parliament of Canada, not exceeding
those at the time of the passing of such Act
held, enjoyed and exercised by the Com
mons House of Parliament of the United
Kingdom and by the members thereof
respectively. R.S., c. 249, s. 4.

**5.** Such privileges, immunities and powers
are part of the general and public law of
Canada, and it is not necessary to plead the
same, but the same shall, in all courts in
Canada, and by and before all judges, be
taken notice of judicially. R.S., c. 249, s. 5.

**6.** Upon any inquiry concerning the privi
leges, immunities and powers of the Senate
and of the House of Commons or of any
member thereof respectively, any copy of the
journals of the Senate or House of Commons,
printed or purported to be printed by the
order of the Senate or House of Commons,
shall be admitted as evidence of such journals
by all courts, justices and others, without any
proof being given that such copies were so
printed. R.S., c. 249, s. 6.

## REPORT AND PROCEEDINGS

**7.** (1) Any person who is a defendant in
any civil or criminal proceedings commenced
and prosecuted in any manner for or on
account of or in respect of the publication of
any report, paper, votes or proceedings, by
such person or by his servant, by or under the
authority of the Senate or House of Commons,
may bring before the court in which such
proceedings are so commenced and prosecuted,
or before any judge of the same, first giving
twenty-four hours notice of his intention so
to do to the prosecutor or plaintiff in such
proceedings, or to his attorney or solicitor, a
certificate under the hand of the Speaker or
Clerk of the Senate or House of Commons, as
the case may be, stating that the report,
paper, votes or proceedings, as the case may
be, in respect whereof such civil or criminal
proceedings have been commenced and prose
cuted, was or were published by such person
or by his servant, by order or under the
authority of the Senate or House of Commons,
as the case may be, together with an affidavit
verifying such certificate.
(2) Such court or judge shall thereupon
immediately stay such civil or criminal
and the same and every writ or
issued therein shall be and shall be
and taken to be finally put an end
to, determined and superseded by virtue of
this Act. R.S., c. 249, s. 7.

**8.** (1) Where any civil or criminal proceed
ings are commenced or prosecuted for or on
account or in respect of the publication of
any copy of such report, paper, votes or
proceedings, the defendant, at any stage of
the proceedings, may lay before the court or
judge , such report , paper, votes or proceedings,
and such copy with an affidavit verifying
such report, paper, votes or proceedings, and
the correctness of such copy.
(2) The court or judge shall thereupon
immediately stay such civil or criminal
proceedings, and the same and every writ or
process issued therein, shall be and shall be
deemed to be finally put an end to, determined
and superseded by virtue of this Act. U.S., c.
249, s. 8.

**9.** In any civil or criminal proceedings
commenced or prosecuted for printing any
extract from or abstract of any such report,
paper, votes or proceedings, such report,
paper, votes or proceedings may be given in
evidence, and it may be shown that such
extract and abstract was published bona fide
and without malice, and, if such is the opinion
of the jury, a verdict of not guilty shall be
entered for the defendant. R.S., c. 249, s. 9.

## INDEPENDENCE OF PARLIAMENT
Members of the House of Commons

**10.** Except as hereinafter specially provid-
ed,
  * (_a_) no person accepting or holding any
office, commission or employment, perma
nent or temporary, in the service of the
Government of Canada, at the nomination
of the Crown or at the nomination of any
of the officers of the Government of
Canada, to which any salary, fee, wages,
allowance, emolument, or profit of any kind
is attached, and
(6) no sheriff, registrar of deeds, clerk of
the peace, or county crown attorney in any
of the provinces of Canada,
is eligible as a member of the House of
Commons, or shall sit or vote therein. R.S., c.
249, s. 10.
j i. Nothing in section 10 renders ineligible
any person holding any office, commission or
employment, permanent or temporary, in the
service of the Government of Canada, at the
nomination of the Crown, or at the nomination
of any of the officers of the Government of
Canada, as a member of the House of
Commons, or disqualifies him from sitting or
voting therein, if, by his commission or other
instrument of appointment, it is declared or
provided that he shall hold such office,
commission or employment without any
salary, fees, wages, allowances, emolument or
other profit of any kind, attached thereto.
R.S., c. 249, s. 11.

**12.** Nothing in this Act renders ineligible
or disqualifies any person as a member of the
House of Commons or to sit or vote therein,
by reason of his being
  * (_a_) a member of Her Majesty s forces while
he is on active service as a consequence of
war, or
(6) a member of the reserve force of the
Canadian Forces who is not on full-time
service other than active service as a
consequence of war. R.S., c. 310, s. 5; 1966-
67, c. 96, s. 64.

**13.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
a mem b er O f t jj e H ouse of Commons shall not
vacate his seat by reason only of his acceptance
of an office of profit under the Crown, if that
office is an office the holder of which is
capable of being elected to, or sitting or
voting in, the House of Commons. R.S., c.
249, s. 13.

**14.** A. person is not, by this Act, rendered
ineligible as a member of the House of
Commons or disqualified from sitting or
voting in the House of Commons by reason
only of his acceptance of travelling expenses
paid out of public moneys of Canada where
the travel is undertaken at the request of the
Governor in Council on the public business of
Canada. 1968-69, c. 28, s. 98.

**15.** A member of the Queen s Privy Council
for Canada is not, by this Act, rendered
ineligible as a member of the House of
Commons or disqualified from sitting or
voting in the House of Commons by reason
only that he
  * (_a_) holds an office for which a salary is
provided in section 4 of the Salaries Act
and receives that salary, or
  * (_b_) is a Minister without Portfolio and
receives a salary in respect of that position,
if he is elected while he holds that office or
position or is a member of the House of
Commons at the date of his nomination by
the Crown for that office or position. 1968-69,
c. 28, s. 98.

**16.** No person, directly or indirectly, alone
or with any other, by himself or by the
interposition of any trustee or third party,
holding or enjoying, undertaking or executing
any contract or agreement, expressed or
implied, with or for the Government of
Canada on behalf of the Crown, or with or
for any of the officers of the Government of
Canada, for which any public money of
Canada is to be paid, is eligible as a member
of the House of Commons, or shall sit or vote
in the said House. R.S., c. 249, s. 15.

**17.** If any member of the House of
Commons accepts any office or commission,
or is concerned or interested in any contract,
agreement, service or work that, by this Act,
renders a person incapable of being elected
to, or of sitting or voting in the House of
Commons, or knowingly sells any goods,
wares or merchandise to, or performs any
service for the Government of Canada, or for
any of the officers of the Government of
Canada, for which any public money of
Canada is paid or to be paid, whether such
contract, agreement or sale is expressed or
implied, and whether the transaction is single
or continuous, the seat of such member is
thereby vacated, and his election is thence
forth void. R.S., c. 249, s. 16.
ig. (i) if any p ers on disqualified or by
Act declared incapable of being elected
or of sitting or voting in the House of
Commons, or if any person duly elected, who
has become disqualified to continue to be a
member or to sit or vote, under section 17,
nevertheless sits or votes, or continues to sit
or vote therein, he shall thereby forfeit the
sum of two hundred dollars for each and
every day on which he so sits or votes.
(2) Such sum is recoverable from him by
any person who sues for the same in any court
of competent civil jurisdiction in Canada.
R.S., c. 249, s. 17.

**19.** Sections 16, 17 and 18 extend to any
transaction or act begun and concluded during
a recess of Parliament. R.S., c. 249, s. 18.

**20.** (1) In every contract, agreement or
commission to be made, entered into or
accepted by any person with the Government
of Canada, or any of the departments or
officers of the Government of Canada, there
shall be inserted an express condition, that no
member of the House of Commons shall be
admitted to any share or part of such contract ,
agreement or commission, or to any benefit
to arise therefrom.
(2) In case any person, who has entered
into or accepted, or who shall enter into or
accept any such contract, agreement or
commission, admits any member or members
of the House of Commons, to any part or
share thereof, or to receive any benefit
thereby, every such person shall, for every
such offence, forfeit and pay the sum of two
thousand dollars, recoverable with costs in
any court of competent jurisdiction by any
person who sues for the same. R.S., c. 249, s.

**19.**
2 1. This Act does not extend to disqualify
any person as a member of the House of
Commons by reason of his being
  * (_a_) a shareholder in any incorporated
company having a contract or agreement
with the Government of Canada, except
any company that undertakes a contract
for the building of any public work ;
(6) a person on whom the completion of
any contract or agreement, expressed or
implied, devolves by descent or limitation,
or by marriage, or as devisee, legatee,
executor or administrator, until twelve
months have elapsed after the same has so
devolved on him ; or
  * (_c_) a contractor for the loan of money or of
securities for the payment of money to the
Government of Canada under the authority
of Parliament, after public competition, or
respecting the purchase or payment of the
public stock or debentures of Canada, on
terms common to all persons. R.S., c. 249, s.
20; R.S., c. 310, s. 5.
Members of the Senate

**22.** (1) No person, who is a member of the
Senate, shall directly or indirectly, knowingly
and wilfully be a party to or be concerned in
any contract under which the public money
of Canada is to be paid.
(2) If any person, who is a member of the
Senate, knowingly and wilfully becomes a
party to or concerned in any such contract,
he shall forfeit the sum of two hundred dollars
for each and every day during which he
continues to be such party or so concerned.
(3) Such sum is recoverable from him by
any person who sues for the same, in any
court of competent jurisdiction in Canada.
(4) This section does not render any senator
liable for such penalties, by reason of his
being a shareholder in any incorporated
company having a contract or agreement with
the Government of Canada, except any
company that undertakes a contract for the
building of any public public work. work.
(5) This section does not render any senator
liable for such penalties by reason of his
being, or having been, a contractor for the
loan of money or of securities for the payment
money to the Government of Canada
under the authority of Parliament, after
competition, or by reason of his being,
or having been, a contractor respecting the
of Canada, on terms common to
persons. R.S., c. 249, s. 21.
Members of the Senate and of the House of
Commons

**23.** (1) No member of the Senate or of the
House of Commons shall receive or agree to
receive any compensation, directly or indirect
ly, for services rendered, or to be rendered, to
any person, either by himself or another, in
relation to any bill, proceeding, contract,
claim, controversy, charge, accusation, arrest
or other matter before the Senate or the
House of Commons, or before a committee of
either House, or in order to influence or to
attempt to influence any member of either
House.
(2) Every member of the Senate offending
against this section is liable to a fine of not
less than one thousand dollars and not more
than four thousand dollars ; and every member
of the House of Commons offending against
this section is liable to a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars and not more than two
thousand dollars, and shall for five years after
conviction of such offence, be disqualified
from being a member of the House of
Commons, and from holding any office in the
public service of Canada.
(3) Any person who gives, offers, or promises
to any such member any compensation for
such services as aforesaid, rendered or to be
rendered, is guilty of an indictable offence,
and liable to one year s imprisonment and to
a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
and not more than two thousand dollars. R.S.,
c. 249, s. 22.
Limitation of Actions

**24.** No person is liable to any forfeiture or
penalty imposed by this Act, unless proceed
ings are taken for the recovery thereof within
twelve months after such forfeiture or penalty
has been incurred. R.S., c. 249, s. 23.
Examination of Witnesses

**25.** The Senate or the House of Commons
may administer an oath to any witness
examined at the bar of the Senate or of the
House. R.S., c. 249, s. 24.

**26.** The Senate or the House of Commons
at any time order witnesses to be
on oath before any committee.
R.S., c. 249, s. 25.

**27.** Any committee of the Senate or of the
House of Commons may administer an oath
to any witness examined before such commit
tee. R.S., c. 249, s. 26.

**28.** Where any witness to be examined
under this Act conscientiously objects to take
an oath, he may make his solemn affirmation
and declaration. R.S., c. 249, s. 27.

**29.** Any solemn affirmation and declara
tion so made is of the same force and effect,
and entails the same consequences, as an oath
taken in the usual form. R.S., c. 249, s. 28.

**30.** Every such oath or affirmation shall
be in the Forms A and B respectively in the
schedule. R.S., c. 249, s. 29.
3 1. Any person examined as aforesaid who
wilfully gives false evidence is liable to the
penalties of perjury. R.S., c. 249, s. 30.

**32.** Any oath or affirmation under this Act
may be administered by
  * (_a_) the Speaker of the Senate or of the
House of Commons;
(6) the chairman of any committee of the
Senate or House of Commons; or
  * (_c_) such person or persons as may from time
to time be appointed for that purpose,
either by the Speaker of the Senate or by
the Speaker of the House of Commons, or
by any standing or other order of the
Senate or House of Commons respectively.
R.S., c. 249, s. 31.
Speakers Salaries

**33.** The following salaries shall be paid,
respectively :
  * (_a_) to the Speaker of the Senate, the sum
of nine thousand dollars per annum ;
  * (_b_) to the Speaker of the House of Commons,
the sum of nine thousand dollars per
annum ; and
  * (_c_) to the Deputy Speaker of the House of
Commons, the sum of six thousand dollars
per annum. 1953-54, c. 10, s. 1.
Indemnity

**34.** (1) For the sessions of each Parliament
there shall be paid to every member of the
Senate and House of Commons a sessional
allowance at the rate of twelve thousand
dollars per annum.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a person
shall be deemed to have become a member of
the Senate on the day he is summoned to the
Senate, and a person shall be deemed to have
become a member of the House of Commons
on the day last fixed for the election of a
member of the House of Commons for the
electoral district represented by him. 1953-54,
c. 10,s.2; 1963, c. 14, s. 1.

**35.** For the purposes of the allowances
payable under section 34 and section 43, a
person who, immediately before a dissolution
of the House of Commons, was a member
thereof shall be deemed to continue to be a
member of the House of Commons until the
date of the next following general election.
1953-54, c. 10, s. 2.

**36.** The sessional allowances payable under
section 34 shall be paid in monthly instalments
on the last day of each month. 1953-54, c. 10,
s. 2.

**37.** (1) A deduction at the rate of sixty
dollars per day shall be made from the
sessional allowance of a member for every
day beyond twenty-one on which he does not
attend a sitting of the House of which he is a
member, if that House sits on such day ; but
in the case of a member elected or appointed
after the commencement of a session, no day
of a session previous to such election or
appointment shall be reckoned as one of such
twenty-one days.
(2) Each day during the session on which
  * (_a_) there has been no sitting of the House
in consequence of its having adjourned over
such day,
(6) the member is unable to attend by
reason of his illness, or
(3) Where a member of the Senate or House
of Commons dies, his sessional allowance
shall be paid to the end of the month in
which his death occurs. 1953-54, c. 10, s. 3;
1963, c. 14, s. 2.

**38.** In the calculation of any deduction
from any member s sessional allowance on
account of absence, days that were spent by
such member on service as an officer or man
of the reserve force while on any training or
other duty authorized by regulations or orders
made under the National Defence Act, shall
not be computed. 1953-54, c. 13, s. 18; 1966-67,
c. 96, s. 64.

**39.** In the calculation of any deduction
from any member s sessional allowance on
account of absence, days which were spent by
such member in the Canadian Forces or in
any other armed forces of the Crown while
such forces are on active service in consequence
of any war shall not be computed. 1966-67, c.
96, s. 64.

**40.** The Senate or the House of Commons
may respectively make regulations, from time
to time, by rule or by order, rendering more
stringent upon its own members the provisions
of this Act that relate to attendance of
members or to deductions to be made from
the sessional allowance. R.S., c. 249, s. 41.

**41.** (1) To the member occupying the
recognized position of Leader of the Opposi
tion in the House of Commons there shall be
paid, in addition to his sessional allowance,
an annual allowance of fifteen thousand
dollars.
(2) There shall be paid to each member of
the House of Commons, other than the Prime
Minister or the member occupying the
recognized position of Leader of the Opposi
tion in the House of Commons, who is the
leader of a party that has a recognized
membership of twelve or more persons in the
House of Commons, an allowance at the rate
of four thousand dollars per annum in
addition to the sessional allowance payable
to such member.
(3) There shall be paid to the members
occupying the recognized positions of Chief
Government Whip and Chief Opposition
Whip in the House of Commons, an allowance
at the rate of four thousand dollars per annum
each, in addition to the sessional allowances
payable to such members. 1953-54, c. 10, s. 5;
1963, c. 14, s. 3.

**42.** To the member of the Senate occupying
the recognized position of Leader of the
Government in the Senate there shall be paid
in addition to his sessional allowance an
annual allowance of ten thousand dollars,
and to the member of the Senate occupying
the recognized position of Leader of the
Opposition in the Senate there shall be paid
in addition to his sessional allowance an
annual allowance of six thousand dollars ; but
if the Leader of the Government is in receipt
of a salary under the Salaries Act, the annual
allowance shall not be paid. 1953-54, c. 10, s.

**5.**

**43.** (1) For each session of Parliament,
there shall be allowed to each member of the
Senate and House of Commons such actual
moving or transportation and travelling
expenses between his place of residence or his
constituency and Ottawa, and such actual
telecommunication expenses incurred while
in Ottawa, as each House may by order
prescribe for its own members.
(2) In addition to the expenses provided
for in subsection (1), there shall be paid
annually
  * (_a_) to each Minister of the Crown and to
the member holding the recognized position
of Leader of the Opposition in the House
of Commons, a motor vehicle allowance of
two thousand dollars ; and
(6) to the Speaker of the Senate and the
Speaker of the House of Commons, a motor
vehicle allowance of one thousand dollars
each.
(3) In addition to the expenses provided
for in subsection (1), there shall be paid to
each member of the Senate and House of
Commons an allowance for expenses inciden
tal to the discharge of his duties as a member
  * (_a_) in the case of a member of the Senate,
at the rate of three thousand dollars per
annum ; and
  * (_b_) in the case of a member of the House of
Commons, at the rate of six thousand
dollars per annum.
(4) The allowances described in subsection
(3) shall be paid quarterly to each member on
or before the last day of March, June,
September and December in each year and
shall be subject to a deduction in respect of
non-attendance at sittings of the House of
which he is a member equal to the deduction
from the sessional allowance of a member
provided for in section 37.
(5) Where a member of the Senate or House
of Commons dies, his expense allowance shall
be paid up to and including the day of his
death. 1963, c. 14, s. 4.

**44.** (1) For each session of Parliament, at
the end of each month and at the end of the
session, each member shall furnish the Clerk
of the House of which he is a member with a
statement, signed by him, of the number of
days attendance during the month or session,
as the case may be, for which he is entitled to
the said allowance, and, in case days are
included on which the member has failed to
attend by reason of illness, setting forth that
fact and that his absence was due to such
illness and was unavoidable.
(2) Every member applying for an allow
ance for travelling and living expenses shall
furnish the Clerk of the House of which he is
a member with a statement, signed by him,
of his actual moving or transportation
expenses, and of his living expenses, as
provided for in section 43, and, if the member
has elected to commute such allowance under
section 43, a statement of the time necessarily
occupied in his journeys to and from Ottawa,
as provided by that section.
(3) Upon the said statements being certified
by the Clerk, or the Assistant Clerk, and
sworn to by the member before the accountant
or assistant accountant of the House or any
person authorized to take affidavits, the Clerk
of the Senate or the accountant of the House
of Commons, shall pay to the member the
allowance to which he is entitled. R.S., c. 249,
s. 45.
Suma granted to 45. There is hereby granted to Her Majesty,
Her Majesty
out of any unappropriated moneys forming
part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, an
annual sum sufficient to enable Her Majesty
to pay the amount of the sessional allowances
hereinbefore mentioned. R.S., c. 249, s. 46.
How expended 46. All moneys expended under this Act,
in respect of the House of Commons, shall be
expended and accounted for in the same
manner as moneys for defraying the contin
gent expenses of the House of Commons are
to be expended and accounted for under the
House of Commons Act. R.S., c. 249, s. 47.
Idem 47. (1) Credits for all sums voted by
Parliament and payable in respect of allow
ances to members of the Senate as hereinbefore
provided, and in respect of other expenditure
for the service of the Senate, shall issue from
time to time.
Credits on banks (2) Such credits shall issue on one of the
of Canada
banks of Canada in favour of the Clerk of the
Senate and the assistant accountant of the
Senate, or such other persons as the Speaker
of the Senate from time to time designates
for the purpose.
Clerk to apply (3) Such Clerk shall, from time to time,
apply for such credits as he deems necessary
by an order signed by him. R.S., c. 249, s. 48.

## SCHEDULE

## FORM A
The evidence you shall give on this examination shall be
the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. So help
you God.

## FORM B
I, A.B., do solemnly, sincerely and truly affirm and declare
the taking of any oath is according to my religious belief
unlawful, and I do also solemnly, sincerely and truly affirm
and declare, etc.
R.S., c. 249, Sch.
