CHAPTERT-l
Act to provide for the appointment of a
Ttiriff Board

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Tariff
Board Act. R.S.,c. 261, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Board" means the Tariff Board provided for
by this Act ;
"goods" means products, wares and merchan-
dise or movable effects of any kind,
including, but without limiting the gener-
ality of the foregoing, horses, cattle, and
other animais ;
"member" means a member of the Tariff
Board;
"Minister" means the Minister of Finance.
R.S.,c. 261,s. 2.

## CONSTITUTION AND DUTIES OF BOARD

**3.** (1) There shall be a Board, to be called
the Tariff Board, consisting of seven members
appointed by the Governor in Council.
(2) The Governor in Council shall appoint
  * (_a_) one of the members to be Chairman,
(6) one of the members to be first Vice-
Chairman, and
  * (_c_) one of the members to be second Vice-
Chairman ;
and the Chairman shall préside at any sittings
of the Board at which he is présent and shall
to préside at any sittings of the
Board at which he is not présent.
(3) Each member holds office during good
behaviour for such term not exceeding ten
years as may be fixed by the Governor in
Council at the time of his appointment but
may be removed for cause at any time by the
Governor in Council.
(4) A member ceases to hold office upon
reaching the âge of seventy years.
(5) A member on the expiration of his term
of office is, if not disquahfied by âge, ehgibie
for re-appointment.
(6) If any member, by reason of illness or
other incapacity or absence from Canada, is
unable at any time to perform the duties of
his position, or if the position of a member is
at any time vacant, the Governor in Council
may make a temporary appointment of a
qualified person to act in his place or in such
position upon such terms and conditions and
for such time as the Governor in Council may
prescribe.
(7) No member is eligible to be a candidate
for élection to the House of Commons of
Canada until after the expiration of two years
from the date when he ceased to be a member
of the Board.
(8) With respect to an appeal to the Board
pursuant to any Act other than this Act, three
or more members hâve and may exercise and
perform ail the powers and functions of the
Board.
(9) A vacancy on the Board does not impair
the right of the remaining members to act.
(10) If the Chairman is absent or is unable
to act or if the office is vacant, the first Vice-
Chairman has and may exercise and perform
ail the powers and functions of the Chairman,
and if the Chairman and the first Vice-
Chairman are absent or are unable to act or
if those offices are vacant, the second Vice-
Chairman has and may exercise and perform
ail the powers and functions of the Chairman.
R.S., c. 261, s. 3; 1956, c. 15, s. 1; 1960-61, c.
18, s. 1 ; 1968-69, c. 10, s. 38.

**4.** (1) In respect of goods produced in or
into Canada the Board shall, at the
of the Minister, make inquiry as to
  * (_a_) the price and cost of raw materials in
Canada and elsewhere, and the cost of
transportation thereof from the place of
production to the place of use or consump-
tion;
(6) the cost of efficient production in
Canada and elsewhere, and what increases
or decreases in rates of duty are required to
equalize différences in the cost of efficient
production ;
  * (_c_) the cost, efficiency and conditions of
labour, including health of employées, in
Canada and elsewhere ;
  * (_d_) the priées received by producers, manu-
facturers, wholesale dealers, retailers and
other distributors in Canada and elsewhere ;
  * (_e_) ail conditions and factors which affect
or enter into the cost of production and the
price to the consumers in Canada ; and
(/) generally, ail the conditions affecting
production, manufacture, cost and price in
Canada as compared with other countries ;
and report to the Minister.
(2) The Board shall make inquiry into any
other matter, upon which the Minister desires
information, in relation to any goods that, if
brought into Canada or produced in Canada,
are subject to or exempt from duties of
customs or excise, and shall report to the
Minister, and the inquiry into any such
matter may include inquiry as to the effect
that an increase or decrease of the existing
rate of duty upon a given commodity might
hâve upon industry or trade, and the extent
to which the consumer is protected from
exploitation.
(3) The Board may be empowered by the
Governor in Council to hold an inquiry under
section 16 of the Customs Tariff, in the same
manner as the judge of the Exchequer Court
of Canada or any other judge therein referred
to may be so empowered, and that section
includes and applies to the Board as if it were
therein expressly named.
(4) It is also the duty of the Board to
inquire into any other matter or thing in
to the trade or commerce of Canada
that the Governor in Council sees fit to refer
to the Board for inquiry and report.
(5) Inquiries under this section shall be
conducted in a sunmiary manner in pubhc,
except as otherwise expressly provided in this
or any other Act of the Parhament of Canada,
and the respective reports to be made pursuant
to its provisions shall succinctly state the facts
so ascertained; and each report shall be
accompanied by a copy of the évidence, if
any, taken, and by a copy of ail information
obtained in connection with the inquiry. R.S.,
c. 261, s. 4; R.S.,c. 336, s. 1.

**5.** (1) The Board has the power of sum-
moning before it any witnesses, and of
requiring them to give évidence on oath, or
on solemn affirmation if they are persons
entitled to affirm in civil matters, and to
produce such documents and things as the
Board deems requisite.
(2) The Board shall give reasonable oppor-
tunity to persons who may not hâve been
summoned, to appear before it and give
évidence upon oath or solemn affirmation as
aforesaid, on any matter relevant to an
inquiry then being held by the Board.
(3) No person is compellable, against his
will, to attend to give évidence or to produce
documents or other things, at any place
outside the province in which he is served
with the summons or other process issued for
the purpose of an inquiry under this Act.
(4) Every person summoned to attend,
pursuant to this section, shall, in the discrétion
of the Board or a member of the Board, as
the case may be, receive the like fées and
allowances for so doing as if summoned to
attend before the Exchequer Court.
(5) The Board has the same power to
the attendance of witnesses, and to
them to give évidence, as is vested in
court of record in civil cases.
(6) The Board is a couTt of record, and shall
member or members of the Board designated
by him and for the purposes of such inquiry
the member or members so designated hâve
and may exercise and perform ail the powers
and functions of the Board.
  * (_g_) Each member may administer oaths and
^^^^ ^^^ receive affidavits, déclarations and
affirmations for any of the purposes of this
Act or the régulations.
(Q) for the purposes of any inquiry under
^^^ ^^^' *^^ Board may obtain information
that in its judgment is authentic, otherwise
than under the sanction of an oath or
affirmation, and use and act upon such
information.
(10) Should évidence or information that is
in its nature confidential, relating to the
business or affairs of any person, firm or
corporation, be given or elicited in the course
of any inquiry, the évidence or information
shall not be made public in such a manner as
to be available for the use of any business
competitor or rival of the person, firm or
corporation, respectively , but this subsection
does not apply to an inquiry under subsection
4(3) ; and any person who violâtes any of the
provisions of this subsection is guilty of an
offence and liable, on summary conviction, to
a penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars
or not more than twelve months imprisonment.
(11) Inquiries under this Act shall , whenever
practicable, be conducted at some suitable
place in the city of Ottawa, but the Board
may, in its discrétion, conduct such inquiries,
either in whole or in part, in any other place
in Canada, and, with the consent of the
Minister, in any place outside Canada.
(12) The Board shall hold sessions and
conduct proceedings in such manner as may
seem most convenient for the speedy and
the Canada Gazette immediately after the
promulgation thereof.
(13) This section, except subsections (3) and
(7), applies in respect of an appeal to the
Board pursuant to any other Act or régulations
thereunder as if the appeal were an inquiry
within the meaning of this Act. R.S., c. 261,
s. 5; 1960-61, c. 18, s. 2.
5, Whenever a report has been made under
*^^^ ^^^' ^ copy thereof and a copy of the
évidence , if any, taken , and of the information
obtained (except such évidence and informa-
tion as was of a confidential character under
subsection 5(10)) in connection therewith shall
be laid before Parliament by the Minister
within fifteen days after the opening of the
next session thereafter, or within fifteen days
after the making of the report if Parliament
is then in session. R.S., c. 261, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Except as provided in this section,
the officers, clerks and employées necessary
for the proper conduct of the business of the
Board shall be appointed in the manner
authorized by law.
(2) The Board, with the approval of the
rri Treasury -n Board, j may
  * (_a_) appoint one or more persons, having
technical or spécial knowledge of any of
the matters into which inquiry under this
Act may be made, to assist the Board in
making such inquiry,
(6) employ shorthand reporters, and
  * (_c_) détermine the rémunération and period
of service of persons appointed or employed
under this section. R.S., c. 261, s. 7 ; 1956, c.
15, s. 2.
g. The members of the Board shall be paid
^"^^ Salaries as are fixed by the Governor in
Council, but the Chairman shall be paid not
less than twenty-three thousand, seven hun-
and sixty dollars per annum; the first
shall be paid not less than
hundred and twenty dollars per annum ; and
each of the other members shall be paid not
less than nineteen thousand, four hundred
and forty dollars per annum. R.S., c. 336, s.
2; 1955,c. 55,s. 3; 1956, c. 15, s. 3; 1963, c. 41,
s. 8; 1966-67, c. 84, s. 3.

**9.** The Board shall cause its décisions in
any case brought before it pursuant to any
Act other than this Act to be published
forthwith in the Canada Gazette. 1968-69, c.
10, s. 38.

**10.** The Governor in Council may make
such régulations not inconsistent with this Act
as may be deemed necessary for carrying out
the provisions of this Act. R.S., c. 261, s. 10.
