CHAPTERT-ll
An Act respecting trade unions

## SHORT TITLE
1, Xhis Act may be cited as the Trade
Unions Act. R.S., c. 267, s. l.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act "trade union" means such
combination, whether temporary or perma-
nent, for regulating the relations between
workmen and masters, or for imposing
restrictive conditions on the conduct of any
trade or business, as would, but for this Act,
hâve been deemed to be an unlawful
combination by reason of some one or more
of its purposes being in restraint of trade.
R.S., c. 267, s. 2.
APPLICATION

**3.** This Act does not affect
  * (_a_) any agreement between partners as to
their own business ;
(6) any agreement between an employer
and those employed by him as to such
employment; or
  * (_c_) any agreement in considération of the
sale of the goodwill of a business, or of
instruction in any profession, trade or
handicraft. R.S., c. 267, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Nothing in this Act enables any court
^° entertain any légal proceeding instituted
with the object of directly enforcing or
recovering damages for the breach of any
agreement
  * (_a_) between members of a trade union, as
such, concerning the conditions on which
anj' members for the time being of the trade
union shall, or shall not, sell their goods,
transact business, employ or be employed ;
  * (_b_) for the payment by any person of any
subscription or penalty to a trade union;
  * (_c_) for the application of the funds of a
trade union,
  * (_i_) to provide benefits to members,
  * (_ii_) to furnish contributions to any
employer or workman, not a member of
such trade union, in considération of such
employer or workman acting in conform-
ity with the rules or resolutions of such
trade union, or
  * (_iii_) to discharge any fine imposed upon
any person by sentence of a court of
justice;
  * (_d_) made between one trade union and
another; or
  * (_e_) to secure by bond the performance of
any of the above-mentioned agreements.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to constitute as unlawful any of the agree-
ments mentioned above. R.S., c. 267, s. 4.

**5.** No Act in force in Canada providing for
the constitution and incorporation of charita-
ble, benevolent or provident institutions,
applies to trade unions; and this Act does not
applj' to any trade union not registered under
this Act, R.S., c. 267, s. 5.

## CONSTITUTION AND REGISTRY

**6.** Any seven or more members of a trade
union may, by subscribing their names to the
rules of the union and otherwise complj'ing
with the provisions of this Act with respect to
registry, register the trade union under this
Act, but if any one of the purposes of the
trade union is unlawful, the registration is
void. R.S., c. 267, s. 6.

**7.** The Registrar General of Canada shall
be the Registrar under this Act. R.S., c. 267,

**7.**
g. (j) With respect to the registry, under
Act, of trade unions, the following
hâve effect :
  * (_a_) an application to register the trade
union and printed copies of its rules,
together with a list of the titles and names
of its officers, shall be sent to the Registrar ;
(6) the Registrar, upon being satisfied that
the trade union has complied with the
régulations respecting registry in force
under this Act, shall register the trade union
and its rules ;
  * (_c_) no trade union shall be registered under
a name identical with that under which any
other trade union has been registered, or so
nearly resembling such name as to be likely
to deceive the members or the public ; and
{d) if a trade union that applies to be
registered has been in opération for more
than a year before the date of such
application, there shall be delivered to the
Registrar, before the registry thereof, a
gênerai statement of the receipts, funds,
effects and expenditure of the trade union,
in the same form and showing the same
particulars as if it were the annual gênerai
statement required, as hereinafter men-
tioned to be transmitted annually to the
Registrar.
(2) The Registrar, upon registering a trade
union, shall issue a certificate of registry, and
the certificate, unless it is proved to hâve
been withdrawn or cancelled, is conclusive
proof that the régulations with respect to
registry hâve been complied with. R.S., c. 267,
s. 8.
9, The Govemor in Council may make
régulations
  * (_a_) respecting registry under this Act,
(6) respecting the seal, if any, to be used
for the purpose of such registry,
  * (_c_) respecting the inspection of documents
kept by the Registrar under this Act,
{d) respecting the fées, if any, to be paid
on registry, not exceeding the fées specified
in Schedule I, and
  * (_e_) generally for carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act as to registry of trade
unions. R.S., c. 267, s. 9.

**10.** With respect to the ruies of a trade
^j^j^j^ registered under this Act, the following
provisions hâve effect :
  * (_a_) the rules shall contain provisions in
respect of the several matters mentioned in
Schedule II; and
(6) a copy of the rules shall be delivered by
the trade union to every person, on demand,
on payment of a sum not exceeding twenty-
five cents. R.S., c. 267, s. 10.
\\, Every trade union registered under
this Act shall hâve a registered office, to
which ail communications and notices may
be addressed. R.S., c. 267, s. 11.

**12.** Notice of the location of the registered
office and of any change therein, shall be
given to the Registrar and recorded by him ;
and until notice of the location of the
registered office is given to the Registrar, the
trade union shall be deemed not to hâve
complied with this Act. R.S., c. 267, s. 12.

## ANNUAL STATEMENT

**13.** (1) A gênerai statement of the receipts,
funds, effects and expenditure of every trade
union registered under this Act shall be
transmitted to the Registrar, before the Ist
day of June in each year, and shall show
fully the assets and liabilities at the date, and
the receipts and expenditure of the trade
union, during the year preceding the date to
which it is made out, and separately, the
expenditure in respect of the several objects
of the trade union, and such statement shall
be prepared and made out to such date, in
such form and shall comprise such particulars
as the Registrar, from time to time, requires.
(2) Every member of and depositor in any
such trade union is entitled to receive, on
application to the secretary or treasurer of
the trade union, a copy of such gênerai
without cost. R.S., c. 267, s. 13.

**14.** There shall be sent to the Registrar,
together with the gênerai statement described
in section 13, a copy of ail new rules and of
ail altérations of rules, and a statement
showing the changes of officers, made by the
trade union during the year preceding the
date to which the gênerai statement is made
eut, and a copy of the rules of the trade
union as they exist at that date. R.S., c. 267,
s. 14.

## RESPECTING PROPERTY

**15.** Any trade union registered under this
Act may purchase, or take upon lease, in the
names of the trustées for the time being of
such trade union, any land not exceeding one
acre, and may sell, exchange, mortgage or let
the same; and no purchaser, assignée, mort-
gagee or tenant is bound to inquire whether
the trustées hâve authority for any sale,
exchange, mortgage or letting, and the receipt
of the trustées is a discharge for the money
arising therefrom ; and for the purposes of
this section, every branch of a trade union
shall be considered a distinct union. R.S., c.
267, s. 15.

**16.** (1) Ail real and personal property
whatever belonging to any trade union
registered under this Act shall be vested in
the trustées for the time being of the trade
union, appointed as provided by this Act, for
the use and benefit of the trade union and
the members thereof.
(2) The real or personal property of any
branch of a trade union shall be vested in the
trustées of the branch and be under the
control of such trustées, their respective
executors or administrators, according to their
respective claims or interests.
(3) Upon the death or removal of any such
trustées the same shall vest in the succeeding
trustées for the same estate and interest as
the former trustées had therein, and subject
to the same trusts, without any conveyance
or assignment whatever, save and except in
the case of Dominion stock, which shall be
transferred into the names of such new
trustées. R.S., c. 267, s. 16.
any property of a trade union or branch, the
same shall be stated to be the property of the
persons for the time being holding the said
office of trustée, in their proper names, as
trustées of such trade union without any
further description. R.S., c. 267, s. 17.

**18.** (1) The trustées of any trade union
registered under this Act, or any other officer
of such trade union who is authorized so to
do by the order thereof, may bring or défend,
or cause to be brought or defended, any
action, suit, prosecution or complaint, in any
court of compétent jurisdiction, touching or
concerning the property, right or claim to
property of the trade union, and may, in ail
cases concerning the property, real orpersonal,
of such trade union, sue and be sued, plead
and be impleaded, in any such court, in their
proper names, without other description than
the title of their office.
(2) No such action, suit, prosecution or
complaint shall be discontinued or abated by
the death or removal from office of such
persons, or any of them, but the same shall
be proceeded in by or against their successor
or successors, as if such death, résignation or
removal had not taken place; and such
successors shall pay and receive the like costs
as if the action, suit, prosecution or complaint
had been commenced in their names, for the
benefit of , or to be reimbursed from the funds
of such trade union.
(3) Any summons to any such trustée or
other officer may be served by leaving the
same at the registered office of the trade
union. R.S., c. 267, s. 18.

## ACCOUNTING

**19.** No trustée of a trade union registered
under this Act is liable to make good any
deficiency that arises or happens in the funds
of such trade union ; but such trustée is liable
only for the moneys actually received by him
on account of such trade union. R.S., c. 267,

**19.**

**20.** Every treasurer or other officer of a
union registered under this Act shall, at
times as he is required by the rules of
the trade union, or at any other time, when
called upon by the trade union so to do,
render to the trustées of the trade union, or
the members, at a meeting thereof, a just and
true account of ail monej's received and paid
by him since he last rendered a like account,
and of the balance then remaining in his
hands, and of ail bonds or securities of the
trade union. R.S., c. 267, s. 20.
2 1. (1) The trustées shall cause such
account to be audited by some fit and proper
person or persons appointed by them.
(2) Upon such audit, the treasurer, if
required, shall forthwith
  * (_a_) hand over to the trustées the balance
that appears to be due by him ; and
  * (_b_) hand over to such trustées ail securities
and effects, books, papers and property of
the trade union in his hands or custody ;
and if he fails to do so, the trustées may sue
the treasurer, in any court of compétent
jurisdiction, for the balance appearing to hâve
been due from him upon the last account
rendered by him, and for ail moneys since
received by him on account of the trade
union, and for the securities and effects,
books, papers and property in his hands or
custody, leaving him to set off in the action
the sums, if any, that he has since paid on
account of the trade union.
(3) In such action the trustées are entitled
to recover their full costs of suit, to be taxed
as between solicitor and client. R.S., c. 267, s.

**21.**

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**22.** (1) If any officer, member or other
person who is, or represents himself to be a
member of a trade union registered under this
Act, or the nominee, executor, administrator
or assignée of a member thereof, or any person
whatever,
  * (_a_) by false représentation or imposition,
obtains possession of any moneys, securities,
books, papers or effects of the trade union ;
(6) having the same in his possession,
wilfuUy withholds or fraudulently misap-
plies the same ; or
  * (_c_) wilfully applies any part of the same to
purposes other than those expressed or
directed in the rules of the trade union, or
any of them ;
the magistrate or justices having jurisdiction
in cases of complaint for offences under this
Act for the place in which the registered office
of the trade union is situated, may, by
summary order, upon a complaint made by
any person on behalf of the trade union, or
by the Registrar, order the officer, member or
other person,
  * (_d_) to deliver up ail such moneys, seciu-ities,
books, papers or other effects to the trade
union; or
  * (_e_) to repay the amount of money paid
improperly and to pay, if the magistrate or
justices think fit, a further sum of money
not exceeding one hundred dollars, together
with costs not exceeding five dollars ;
and in default of such delivery of effects or
payment of the amount of money, or payment
of the penalty and costs, as aforesaid, the
magistrate or justices may order the person so
convicted to be imprisoned, with or without
hard labour, for any term not exceeding three
months.
(2) Nothing in this Act prevents the trade
union from proceeding by indictment against
a person described in subsection (1); but no
person shall be proceeded against by indict-
ment if a conviction has been previously
obtained for the same offence under this Act.
R.S., c. 267, s. 22.

**23.** If any trade union registered under
this Act is in opération for seven days without
having a registered office to which ail
communications and notices may be
addressed, the trade union and every officer
thereof shall each incur a penalty not
exceeding twenty-five dollars for every day
during which it is so in opération. R.S., c. 267,
s. 23.

**24.** (1) Every trade union registered under
this Act that fails to transmit to the Registrar,
before the Ist day of June in each year, a
gênerai statement of itsreceipts, funds, effects
and expenditure,
  * (_a_) showing fully the assets and liabilities
at that date ;
(6) the receipts and expenditure of the
trade union during the year immediately
preceding; and
  * (_c_) showing separately the expenditure in
respect of the several objects of the trade
union, prepared and made out to such date,
and in such form, and comprising such
particulars as the Registrar from time to
time requires, together with a copy of ail
altérations of rules and changes of officers
made, and a copy of the rules as they exist
at that date;
shall incur a penalty not exceeding twenty-
five dollars for each such offence.
(2) Every officer of a trade union so
registered whose duty it is to transmit any
such statement who fails so to do, shall incur
a penalty not exceeding twenty-five dollars
for each such offence.
(3) If the secretary or treasurer of a trade
union so registered refuses or fails to furnish
to any member thereof or depositor therein,
upon application, a copy of such gênerai
statement, he shall, for each such offence,
incur a penalty not exceeding twenty-five
dollars. R.S., c. 267, s. 24.

**25.** Every person who wilfully makes, or
orders to be made, any false entry in or any
omission from any such gênerai statement, or
in or from the return of such copies or rules
or altérations of rules as hereinbefore required
shall incur a penalty not exceeding two
hundred dollars for each offence. R.S., c. 267,
s. 25.

**26.** Every person who, with intent to
mislead • i j or defraud, j r j
  * (_a_) gives to any member of a trade union
registered under this Act, or to any person
intending or applying to become a member
of such trade union, a copy of any rules or
of any altérations of the same falsely
pretending that the same are the existing
rules of the trade union, or that there are
no other rules of the trade union ; or
  * (_b_) gives a copy of any rules of any trade
union not registered under this Act to any
person under the pretence that the rules are
the rules of a trade union registered under
this Act ;
is guilty of an indictable offence, and liable
to a penalty not exceeding two hundred
dollars, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months, or to both, in the
discrétion of the court. R.S., c. 267, s. 26.

## PROCEDURE

**27.** (1) Ail offences and penalties under
this Act may be prosecuted and recovered on
summary conviction.
(2) The description of any offence against
this Act in the words of this Act is sufficient.
(3) Any exception, exemption, proviso,
excuse or qualification, whether it does or
does not accompany the description of any
offence charged under this Act, may be proved
by the défendant, but need not be specified
in the information ; and if so specified and
negatived in such information, no proof in
relation to the matters specified and negatived
shall be required on the part of the informant
or prosecutor. R.S., c. 267, s. 27.

**28.** The father, son or brother of a master,
in the particular trade or business in or in
connection with which any offence under this
Act is charged to hâve been committed, shall
not act as a magistrate or justice of the peace,
in any case of complaint or information under
this Act, or as a member of any court for
hearing any appeal in any such case. R.S., c.
267, s. 28.

## GENERAL

**29.** The purposes of any trade union shall
not, by reason merely that they are inrestraint
of trade, be deemed to be unlawful, so as to
render any member of the trade union liable
to criminal prosecution for conspiracy or
otherwise, or so as to render void or voidable
any agreement or trust. R.S., c. 267, s. 29.
Annual report 30. The Registrar shall lay before Parlia-
for Parliament
ment annual reports with respect to the
matters transacted by him as Registrar under
this Act and in pursuance thereof. R.S., c.
267, s. 30.

## SCHEDULE I

# MAXIMUM FEES
For registering a trade union S4.00
For registering altérations in rules 2.00
For inspection of documents 0.50
R.S., c. 267, First Sch.

## SCHEDULE II

## MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR

## BY THE RULES OF TRADE UNIONS

## REGISTERED UNDER THIS ACT
(1) The name of the trade union and the place of meeting
for the business of the trade union.
(2) Every object for which the trade union is to be estab-
lished, the purposes for which the funds thereof shall be
applicable, and the conditions under which any member may
become entitled to any benefit assured thereby, and the fines
and forfeitures which may be imposed on any member of such
trade union.
(3) The manner of making, altering, amending and re-
scinding rules.
(4) A provision for the appointment and removal of a
gênerai committee of management, and of a trustée or trustées,
treasurer and other officers.
(5) A provision for the investment of the funds, and for an
aimual or periodical audit of accounts.
(6) The inspection of the books and names of members of
