Canada Highway Act. R.S., c. 269, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"highway" includes culverts, bridges and
grade séparations ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Public
Works;
"province" means a province of Canada but
does not include the Northwest Territories
or the Yukon Territory. R.S., c. 269, s. 2;
1956, c. 12, s. 1.

**3.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
in Council the Minister may enter into an
agreement with any province providing for
the payment by Canada to the province of
contributions in respect of the cost to the
province of the construction of a highway
within the province as part of a trans-Canada
highway.
(2) An agreement made under subsection
(1) shall prescribe the location, standards and
the time and method of the construction of
the highway and shall include terms and
conditions for
  * (_a_) the calling of tenders and the review by
the Minister of tenders and spécifications ;
(6) the inspection by the Minister of the
highway during construction ;
  * (_c_) the method of determining the cost of
construction ;
  * (_d_) the amount of the contribution ;
  * (_e_) the examination, inspection and audit
of ail construction costs and accounts ; and
(/) such other terms and conditions as the
Minister may consider necessary or désira-
ble. R.S., c. 269, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Minister of Finance may, in
accordance with an agreement made with a
province under section 3, authorize payment
to the province out of unappropriated moneys
in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the
contributions required by the agreement to be
paid by Canada.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the contribu-
tions paid to a province under this section
shall not exceed the aggregate of
  * (_a_) fifty per cent of the cost to the province
of the construction of the highway, and
  * (_b_) an additional forty per cent of the cost
to the province of the construction of one-
tenth of the highway, but any portion of
the highway taken into account for the
purposes of this paragraph shall be at least
five miles in length.
(3) The contributions paid to the Provinces
of Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Prince
Edward Island, and New Brunswick shall not
exceed ninety per cent of the respective costs
incurred between April 1, 1963 and December
31, 1970 by each of those Provinces in the
construction of the highway.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (2)
  * (_a_) the cost to the province of the construc-
tion of the highway or any portion thereof
shall be such amount as is approved by the
Governor in Council, and
  * (_b_) the length of the highway in the
province and the particular portions thereof
to be taken into account for the purposes of
paragraph (2)(b) shall be such as are
approved by the Minister.
(5) No contributions or payments shall be
made under this Act
  * (_a_) after May 31, 1971, or
  * (_b_) in respect of any construction costs
incurred after December 31, 1970. R.S., c.
269, s. 4; 1956, c. 12, s. 2; 1960, c. 22, s. 1;
1966-67, c. 55, Sch. B vote 57a.

**5.** (1) Where a province has prior to the
lOth day of December 1949 constructed a
highway that in the opinion of the Governor
in Council may properly be included as part
of a trans-Canada highwaj', the Governor in
Council may authorize the Minister of Finance
to provide for the payment to the province
out of unappropriated moneys in the Con-
solidated Revenue Fund of a contribution in
respect of the cost to the province of the
construction of the highway in such amount
and payable at such times and in such manner
as the Governor in Council may détermine,
but not exceeding fifty per cent of the cost of
construction as determined by the Governor
in Council.
(2) No contribution or payment shall be
made under this section in respect of any
highway unless, prior to December 9, 1956, in
the opinion of the Minister, it meets the
standards and spécifications prescribed by an
agreement made with the province under
section 3. R.S., c, 269, s. 5; 1956, c. 12, s. 3.

**6.** (1) With the approval of the Governor
in Council the Minister may employ tempo-
rary engineers, technical officers and other
employées for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The salaries and expenses of persons
employed under this section shall be fixed by
the Governor in Council and shall be paid
out of moneys appropriated by Parliament
for that purpose. R.S., c. 269, s. 6.

**7.** The aggregate of ail expenditures under
sections 4, 5 and 6 shall not exceed eight
hundred and twenty-five million dollars. 1956,
c. 12, s. 4; 1959, c' 10, s. 1 ; 1960, c. 22, s. 2;
1966-67, c. 55, Sch. B vote 57a.

**8.** The Minister may, out of moneys
appropriated by Parliament, provide for the
construction of such highways within the
National Parks as form part of a trans-Canada
highway. 1956, c. 12, s. 4.

**9.** The Minister shall annually lay before
Parliament a report of ail proceedings under
this Act for the preceding fiscal year. R.S., c.
s. 9.
