
# CHAPTERT.13
An Act respecting the Bureau for Translations

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Translation
Bureau Act. R.S., c. 270, s. 1.

**2.** In this Act
"Bureau" means the Bureau for Translations
constituted under this Act ;
"Minister" means the Secretary of State of
Canada, or such other Minister of the
Crown as may from time to time be
appointed by the Governor in Council to
administer this Act. R.S., c. 270, s. 2.

**3.** (1) There shall be a Bureau under the
Minister called the Bureau for Translations,
the duties and function of which are to
collaborate with and act for ail departments
of the Public Service, and both Houses of the
Parliament of Canada and ail bureaus,
branches, commissions and agencies created
or appointed by Act of Parliament, or by
order of the Governor in Council, in making
and revising ail translations from one lan-
guage into another of ail departmental and
other reports, documents, débat es, bills, Acts,
proceedings and correspondence.
(2) It is the duty of ail departments of the
Public Service and ail such branches, commis-
sions and agencies as aforesaid to collaborate
with the Bureau in carrying into effect this
Act and the régulations. R.S., c. 270, s. 3.

**4.** (1) Ail officers and employées who are
employed in the Public Service or in any
department or branch of the Public Service,
including ail employées of the Senate and
of Gommons of Canada, who are
engaged as translators or in the work
translating departmental and other reports,
debates, bills, Acts, proceedings
and correspondence, including the translation
into either the English or French language of
the debates and proceedings of the Senate
and House of Gommons, may be transferred
to the Bureau as herein provided, and such
officers and employées are thereafter subject
to the Public Service Employment Act.
(2) The Minister may from time to time
designate such translators or other employées
in the Public Service or in any department or
branch of the Public Service as he may deem
necessary for carrying this Act into effect,
and the Governor in Gouncil may, from time
to time, transfer to the Bureau any of the
translators or other employées so designated.
R.S., c. 270, s. 4.

**5.** (1) An officcr to be called the Superin-
tendent of the Bureau for Translations shall
be appointed under the Public Service Employ-
ment Act, to hold office during pleasure, whose
duties are to supervise and control the Bureau
under the direction of the Minister, and to
report annually to the Minister with regard
to the work of the Bureau during the preceding
fiscal year.
(2) Such Other off icers, translators, clerks or
Q^^j^gj. employées as are from time to time
necessary for the proper conduct of the
business of the Bureau, may be appointed
under the Public Service Employment Act to
hold office during pleasure. R.S., c. 270, s. 5.

**5.** The Minister, with the approval of the
Governor in Gouncil , may make ail régulations
that are by him deemed necessary or expédient
for carrying this Act into effect. R.S., c. 270,
s. 6.

**7.** (1) Every officer, translater, clerk or
other person employed in the exécution of
any duty or function under this Act or under
any régulation made in pursuance thereof,
before entering on his duties, shall take and
the oath of allegiance and also the
oath :
I .solemnlyswearthat Iwillfaithfully
and honestly fulfil my duties as in
conformity with the requirements of the Translation Bureau
Ad and of ail orders in council, régulations and instructions
issued in pursuance thereof, and that I will not, without
due authority in that behalf, disclose or make known any
matter or thing that cornes to my knowledge by reason of
my employment as such.
(2) The said oaths shall be taken before
such person, and returned and recorded in
such manner, as the Minister prescribes. R.S.,
c. 270, s. 7.
