
# CHAPTERT.14
Act respecting transport by railways, ships
and aircraft

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Transport
i4ct. R.S., c. 271,s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"agreed charge" means a charge agreed upon
between a carrier and a shipper as in this
Act provided and includes the conditions
attached thereto ;
"carrier" means any person engaged in the
transport of goods or passengers for hire or
reward to whom this Act applies, and
includes any company that is subject to the
Railway Act ;
"Commission" means the Canadian Transport
Commission ;
"goods in bulk" means the foUowing goods
laden or freighted in ships, and except as
herein othervvise provided, not bundled or
enclosed in bags, baies, boxes, cases, casks,
crates or any other container :
  * (_a_) grain and grain products, including
flour and mill feeds in bulk or in sacks,
(6) ores and minerais (crude, screened, sized,
refined or concentrated, but not othenvise
processed), including ore concentrâtes in
sacks, sand, stone and gravel, coal and coke,
liquids,
  * (_c_) pulpwood, woodpulp, pôles and logs,
including pulpwood and woodpulp inhales,
and
{d) waste paper loaded as full ship's cargo,
iron and steel scrap and pig iron ;
"Great Lakes" means Lakes Ontario, Erie,
Huron, (including Georgian Bay), and
Superior, and their Connecting waters, and
includes the St. Lawrence River and its
tributaries as far seaward as the.west end of
the Island of Orléans ;
"harbour toll" means every rate, toll and
charge established or proposed to be
established by any Act of Parliament or by,
or with the approval of, the Governor in
Council in respect of ships entering, using
or leaving any harbour in Canada, or the
passengers thereof , or goods loaded, unload-
ed, shipped, transhipped, moved in transit
or stored in any harbour in Canada, or on
or in any wharf, dock, pier, warehouse or
other facility within the limits of any such
harbour or situated on lands appurtenant
thereto ;
"licensee" means a person licensed under this
Act to engage in transport by water;
"Mackenzie River" means ail rivers, streams,
lakes and other waters within the watershed
of the Mackenzie River ;
"Maritime Provinces" means the Provinces of
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince
Edward Island and Newfoundland ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport;
"ship" means every description of vessel,
including a lighter, barge, scow or other like
vessel, however propelled, exceeding ten
tons gross tonnage, used in navigation on
the Mackenzie River, and exceeding five
hundred tons gross tonnage used in naviga-
tion on other waters in Canada;
"shipper" means a person sending or receiving
or desiring to send or receive goods by
means ôf any carrier to whom this Act
applies ;
"toll" or "charge" means any toll, rate, charge
or allowance charged or made in connection
with the transport of passengers, or the
shipment, transport, care, handling or
delivery of goods, or for any services
incidental to the business of a carrier ; and
includes also any toll, rate, charge or
allowance as charged or made in connection
with any instrumentality or facility of
shipment or transport irrespective of own-
ership, or of any contract express or implied
with respect to the use thereof, and includes
also any toll, rate, charge or allowance so
charged or made for furnishing passengers
with sleeping accommodation, or for col-
lecting, receiving, loading, unloading, stop-
ping over, elevating, ventilating, refrigerat-
ing, icing, heating, switching, ferrying,
carting, storing, caring for, handling or
delivering goods transported or in transit
or to be transported ; and includes also any
toll, rate, charge or allowance so charged or
made for the warehousing of goods, wharf-
age or demurrage, or the like ; and includes
charges made in connection with an\- one
or more of the above-mentioned subjects,
separately or conjointly;
"transport" means the transport of goods or
passengers whether by water or by rail, for
hire or reward, to which this Act applies ;
"transport by rail" means the transport of
goods or passengers bj- a company to which
the Railway Act applies ;
"transport by water" means the transport of
goods or passengers for hire or reward by
means of ships required to be licensed under
this Act.
(2) Unless otherwise provided, expressions

## PARTI

## CANADIAN TRANSPORT COMMISSION

**3.** It is the duty of the Commission to
the functions vested in the Commis-
by this Act and by the Railway Act with
the object of coordinating and harmonizing
the opérations of ail carriers engaged in
transport by railways and ships and the
Commission shall give to this Act and to the
Railway Act such fair interprétation as will
best attain the object aforesaid. R.S., c. 271,
s. 3.
4, Thg provisions of the National Transpor-
'«^^on Act relating to sittings of the Commis-
sion and the disposai of business, witnesses
and évidence, practice and procédure, orders
and décisions of the Commission and review
thereof and appeal therefrom, are applicable
in the case of every inquiry, complaint,
application or other proceeding under this
Act, and the Commission shall exercise and
enjoy the same jurisdiction and authority in
matters under this Act as are vested in the
Commission by the National Transportation
Act. R.S.,c. 271, s. 4.
5, Before any application for a licence
under this Act is granted for the transport of
goods or passengers or both goods and
passengers, the Commission shall détermine
whether public convenience and necessity
require such transport, and in so determining
the Commission may take into considération,
inter alia,
  * (_a_) any objection to the application that
may be made by any person or persons who
are already providing transport facilities,
whether by rail or water, on the routes or
between the places that the applicant
intends to serve, on the ground that suitable
facilities are or, if the licence were issued,
would be in excess of requirements, or on
the ground that any of the conditions of
any other transport licence held by the
applicant hâve not been complied with;
(6) whether or not the issue of the licence
would tend to develop the complementary
rather than the compétitive functions of
the différent forms of transport, if any,
involved in such objections ;
  * (_c_) the gênerai effect on other transport
services and any public interest that may
be affected by the issue of the licence ; and
  * (_d_) the quality and permanence of the
service to be offered by the applicant and
his financial responsibility, including adé-
quate provision for the protection of
passengers, shippers and the gênerai public
by means of insurance. R.S., c. 271, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Every licence issued under this Act
shall, subject to this Act, be for one year or
for such other period as the Commission with
the approval of the Governor in Council may
détermine, and a fee is paj'able therefor
according to a tariff of fées to be fixed by the
Commission with the approval of the Governor
in Council.
(2) Fées for licences shall be paid to the
Receiver General for the use of Her Majesty.
R.S., c. 271,s. 6.

**7.** Everj' fine imposed under this Act or
under any régulation shall be paid over to
the Receiver General for the use of Her
Majesty. R.S., c. 271, s. 7.

**8.** If any corporation is guilty of a breach
of any provision of this Act for which a fine
is provided to be imposed on such corporation,
every officer or director of the corporation
who bas been party or privy to the breach is
also liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars. R.S.,
c. 271, s. 8.

**9.** No proceeding for any penalty for any
breach of this Act or of any régulation made
or licence granted thereunder shall be com-
menced except within twelve months from the
date of the breach complained of. R.S., c. 271,
s. 9.

## PART II

## TRANSPORT BY WATER
JQ. (1) The Commission may, subject to
this Part, license ships to transport passengers
or goods or both passengers and goods from a
or place in Canada to another port or
in Canada.
(2) The licence shall be issued in the name
of the owner, lessee or other person entitled
to engage in transport by water by means of
a ship.
(3) The licence may apply to one or more
ships.
(4) The Commission may in the licence
State the ports between which the ship or
ships named therein may carry goods or
passengers and the schedule of services that
shall be maintained, but the licensee may be
authorized to substitute another ship of
approximately the same tonnage for a ship
named in the licence.
(5) The Commission shall issue a licence in
respect of a ship built, being built or about to
be built, upon being satisfied that the
proposed service is and will be required by
the présent and future public convenience
and necessity, and unless the Commission is
so satisfied no licence shall be issued.
(6) No licence shall be issued in the case of
a ship other than a British ship, hereafter
imported into Canada, that was constructed
more than ten years before such importation.
R.S., c. 271, s. 10.

**11.** (1) No goods or passengers shall be
transported by water, from one port or place
in Canada to another port or place in Canada,
either directly or by way of a foreign port or
for any part of the transport, by means of
any ship other than a ship licensed under this
Part.
(2) If any goods or passengers are trans-
ported contrary to this Part or otherwise than
in accordance with the terms of the licence of
the ship, the owner or any other person
operating the ship is liable upon summary
conviction to a fine in respect of goods so
transported not exceeding fifty cents per ton
gross tonnage of the ship or five hundred
dollars, whichever is the greater, and a fine
in respect of passengers so transported not
exceeding two hundred dollars for each
passenger or five hundred dollars, whichever
is the greater.
(3) The collector of customs at anj- port or
in Canada may, if he believes that any
to which this Part applies is transporting,
or has transport ed, passengers or goods or
both passengers and goods without a licence,
in contravention of this Part, may detain the
ship pending the disposition of any complaint
or charge and the payment of anj- fine
imposed in respect of such offence.
(4) If any licensee is convicted of an offence
under this Act, or if the Commission is
satisfied that a ship is operated otherwise
than in accordance with the terms of a licence
applicable thereto, the Commission may after
hearing the licensee suspend or cancel the
licence of such licensee in respect of one or
ail of the ships licensed. R.S., c. 271, s. 11.

**12.** (1) This Part shall not corne into force
on, or in respect of, any sea or inland water
of Canada until proclaimed by the Governor
in Council to be in force on, or in respect of,
such sea or inland water.
(2) The Governor in Council maj' by
régulation exempt any ship or class of ships
from the opération of this Part.
(3) This Part does not apply to the transport
of goods in bulk on waters other than the
Mackenzie River.
(4) This Part does not applj- in the case of
ships engaged in the transport of goods or
passengers
  * (_a_) between ports or places in British
Columbia, or
  * (_b_) between ports or places in Hudson Bay,
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince
Edward Island, Newfoundland, the Gulf of
St. Lawrence and the St. Lawrence River
east of the western point of the Island of
Orléans, or between any two or more places
therein,
nor does this Part apply between any of such
ports or places and ports or places outside
passengers between ports or places in the
Maritime Provinces and ports or places on
the Great Lakes, but such ships are subject to
this Part in respect of goods or passengers
accepted for transport by water from a port
or place on the Great Lakes to another port
or place on the Great Lakes.
(6) Except as provided in subsection (7) this
Part does not apply in the case of ships
engaged in the transport of goods or passengers
between ports or places on the Pacific Océan
and ports or places on the Atlantic Océan or
the Great Lakes or both, but those ships are
at liberty, notwithstanding this Part, to
receive at any number of ports or places on
the Pacific Océan goods or passengers con-
signed or destined to any number of ports or
places on the Atlantic Océan or the Great
Lakes or both, and likewise to receive at any
number of ports or places on the Atlantic
Océan or the Great Lakes or both, goods or
passengers consigned or destined to any
number of ports or places on the Pacific
Océan.
(7) The ships mentioned in subsection (6)
are subject to this Part in respect of goods or
passengers accepted for transport by water
from a port or place on the Pacific Océan to
another port or place on the Pacific Océan or
from a port or place on the Atlantic Océan or
on the Great Lakes to another port or place
on the Atlantic Océan or on the Great Lakes.
R.S., c. 271,s. 12.
PART m

## TRAFFIC, TOLLS AND TARIFFS

**13.** (1) Every licensee shall be governed by
provisions of this Part in respect of tolls
be charged.
(2) Any tolls may be either for the whole
for any particular portion of the route of
licensee, R.S., c. 271, s. 13.

**14.** (1) Every licensee shall file a standard
tariff or tariffs of tolls with the Commission
for approval and may file such other tariff or
tariffs as are authorized by this Part.
(2) Except as otherwise provided, any tariff
in force may, subject to disallowance or
change by the Commission, be amended,
supplemented, or superseded by new tariffs,
in accordance with this Part and régulations
of the Commission. R.S., c. 271, s. 14.

**15.** (1) If the licensee is a corporation, the
licensee or the directors thereof by by-law or
resolution or any officer of the licensee who
is thereunto authorized by by-law or resolution
of the licensee or its directors may, from time
to time, prépare and issue tariffs of the tolls
to be charged in respect of the opération of
its ships, and may specify the persons to
whom, the place where, and the manner in
which, such tolls shall be paid.
(2) Ail by-laws or resolutions shall be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
(3) The Commission may approve the by-
laws or resolutions in whole or in part, or
change, alter or vary any of the provisions
therein.
(4) If the licensee is a corporation, no tolls
shall be charged by the licensee or by any
person until a by-law or resolution authorizing
the préparation and issue of tariffs of the
tolls bas been approved by the Commission ;
or, whether the licensee is a corporation or
not, unless otherwise authorized by this Act,
until a tariff of the tolls has been filed with,
and, where such approval is required under
this Act, approved by, the Commission; or
until any other requirements of this Act to
bring the tariff into effect hâve been complied
with; nor shall any tolls be charged under
any tariff or portion thereof disallowed by
the Commission, or that has not been brought
nor shall the licensee charge, levy or collect
any toll for any service except under and in
accordance with this Act. R.S., c. 271, s. 15.

**16.** When a tariff is filed with and approved
by the Commission, where approval is neces-
sary under this Act, the licensee shall
thereafter, until the tariff is disallowed or
suspended by the Commission, or superseded
by a new tariff, charge the toll or tolls as
specified therein. R.S., c. 271, s. 16.

**17.** The tariffs of tolls that a licensee shall
be authorized to issue under this Part are
divided into f ive classes :
  * (_a_) standard freight tariffs ;
(6) spécial freight tariffs ;
  * (_c_) compétitive freight tariffs ;
  * (_d_) standard passenger tariffs ;
  * (_e_) spécial passenger tariffs. R.S., c. 271,
s. 17.

**18.** (1) The Standard tariff or tariffs shall
specify the maximum mileage tolls to be
charged for passengers and for each class of
the freight classification for ail distances
covered by the licensee.
(2) Every standard tariff and every amend-
ment and supplément thereto requires the
approval of the Commission before it becomes
effective. R.S., c. 271, s. 18.

**19.** Spécial tariffs shall specify a toll or
tolls lower than in the standard tariffs. R.S.,
c. 271,s. 19.

**20.** (1) Compétitive freight tariffs shall
specify a toll or tolls lower than in the
standard freight tariff to be charged between
of this Part. R.S., c. 271, s. 20.

**21.** (1) Ali tolls shall dlways under sub-
similar circumstances and condi-
tions, in respect of ail traffic of the same
description, and carried in like manner over
the same route, be charged equally to ail
persons and at the same rate, whether by
weight, mileage or otherwise.
(2) No réduction or advance in any tolls
shall be made either directiy or indirectly in
favour of or against any particular passenger
or shipper.
(3) No toll shall be charged that unjustly
discriminâtes between différent localities.
R.S., c. 271, s. 21.

**22.** (1) Every licensee shall, according to
his powers and within the limits of the
capacity of the ships specified in the licence,
afford to ail persons and companies ail
reasonable and proper facilities for the
receiving, forwarding and delivering of traffic.
(2) No licensee shall
  * (_a_) make or give any undue or unreasonable
préférence or advantage to, or in favour of
any particular person or company, or any
particular description of traffic, in any
respect whatever ;
(6) by any unreasonable delay or otherwise,
make any différence in treatment in the
receiving, loading, forwarding, unloading
or delivery of the goods of a similar
character in favour of or against any
particular person or company ; or
  * (_c_) subject any particular person or compa-
ny, or any particular description of traffic,
to any undue, or unreasonable préjudice or
disadvantage, in any respect whatever. R.S.,
c. 271, s. 22.

**23.** The Commission may disallow any
tariff or any portion thereof that it considers
to be unjust or unreasonable, or contrary to
any provisions of this Part and may require
the licensee, within a prescribed time, to
substitute a tariff satisfactory to the Commis-
sion in lieu thereof, or may prescribe other
tolls in lieu of the tolls so disallowed. R.S.,
271, s. 23.

**24.** The Commission may détermine, as
questions of fact, whether or not traffic is or
has been carried under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, and whether
there has, in any case, been unjust discrimi-
nation, or undue or unreasonable préférence
or advantage, or préjudice or disadvantage,
within the meaning of this Part. R.S., c. 271,
s. 24.

**25.** Whenever it is shown that any licensee
charges one person, company, or class of
persons, or the persons in any district, lower
tolls for the same or similar goods, or lower
tolls for the same or similar services, than it
charges to other persons, companies, or classes
of persons, or to the persons in another
district, or makes any différence in treatment
in respect of those companies or persons, the
burden of proving that the lower toll or
différence in treatment does not amount to
an undue préférence, or an unjust discrimina-
tion, lies on the licensee. R.S., c. 271, s. 25.

**26.** In deciding whether a lower toll, or
différence in treatment, does or does not
amount to an undue préférence or an unjust
discrimination, the Commission may consider
whether the lower toll, or différence in
treatment, is necessary for the purpose of
securing, in the interests of the public, the
traffic in respect of which it is made, and
whether that object cannot be attained without
unduly reducing the higher tolls. R.S., c. 271,
s. 26.

**27.** (1) Any licensee or shipper or any
officer, employée or agent of such licensee or
shipper who
  * (_a_) offers, grants or gives or solicits, accepts
or receives any rebate, concession or dis-
crimination, or
(6) knowingly is party or privy to any false
billing, false classification, false report of
weight or any other device,
whereby any person obtains transport by
water for less than the lawful tolls applicable
thereto, is guilty of an offence and liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding
thousand dollars.
(2) Any licensee or officer or agent of a
licensee who does or omits any act, the doing
or omission whereof is required or prohibited,
as the case may be, and for which no other
penalty is provided under this Act, is guilty
of an offence and. liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars.
(3) No prosecution shall be had or instituted
for any offence under this section without
leave of the Commission first being obtained.
R.S., c. 271,s. 27.

**28.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the Commission may make régulations per-
mitting the licensee to issue spécial rate
notices prescribing tolls lower than the tolls
in force upon the ships of the licensee, to be
charged for spécifie shipments between points
on the route or routes of the licensee, not
being compétitive points, if it considers that
the charging of the spécial tolls mentioned in
any of the notices will help to create trade, or
develop the business of the licensee, or be in
the public interest, and is not otherwise
contrary to this Act. R.S., c. 271, s. 28.

**29.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act
a licensee engaged in transport by water may
carry traffic free or at reduced rates to the
same extent and subject to the same restric-
tions, limitations and control as are applied
in the case of a railway company under the
Railway Act. R.S., c. 271, s. 29.

**30.** The Commission may by régulation
  * (_a_) provide for the classification of freight
and any changes therein from time to time,
to be observed in connection with the
opération and issue of ail tariffs, which
classification shall, in so far as it is
practicable, be uniform throughout
Canada ;
(6) provide for the form, size and style of
tariffs ;
  * (_c_) provide for the notice that shall be given
by a licensee of the issue of a tariff, or of
any altération or cancellation of a tariff, or
any part thereof ;
  * (_d_) provide for the publication and posting
by a licensee of every tariff ;
  * (_e_) provide for the date of coming into force
of every tariff and of every altération or
cancellation of any tariff or any part
thereof;
if) déclare what shall constitute substan-
tially similar circumstances and conditions
or unjust or unreasonable préférences,
advantages, préjudices or disadvantages,
within the meaning of this Act ;
  * (_g_) require periodic returns to be made to
the Commission by licensees of their capital,
traffic, expenditures and other information
required by the Commission ;
  * (_h_) provide for the imposition and collection
of fines for neglect or omission to comply
with régulations made hereunder; and
  * (_i_) provide generally for such matters as, in
the opinion of the Commission, may be
required for the purpose of this Act. R.S.,
c. 271, s. 30.

**31.** This Part does not apply to the
transport of goods in bulk on waters other
than the Mackenzie River. R.S., c. 271, s. 31.

## PART IV

## AGREED CHARGES

**32.** (1) Notwithstanding anything in the
Railway Act or in this Act, a carrier may make
such charges for the transport from one point
in Canada to another point in Canada of
goods of a shipper as are agreed between the
carrier and the shipper.
(2) No agreement for an agreed charge for
the transport by rail from or to a compétitive
point, or between compétitive points, on the
lines of two or more carriers by rail shall be
made unless the competing carriers by rail
consent thereto in writing or join in making
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not applj^ to
a railwaj' company incorporated in the United
and owning, or operating on, a railway
in Canada (in this section called a
States carrier") except as between
on its lines in Canada served exclusively
such carrier.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), where
an agreement for an agreed charge bas been
made by a carrier by rail, whether before or
after the 28th day of July 1955, and the
railway of a United States carrier
  * (_a_) opérâtes at a point of origin or destina-
tion named in the agreement for an agreed
charge or between such points, and
  * (_b_) constitutes, or forms part of, a contin-
uons route by rail established between such
points, entirely in Canada or partly in
Canada and partly in the United States,
the United States carrier is entitled to become
a party to the agreement if ail the railway
companies over whose lines the continuous
route is established concur, and the United
States carrier files with the Commission a
notice of intention to become a party to the
agreement.
(5) Where an agreement for an agreed
charge is made by a carrier by rail any carrier
by water that has established through routes
and interchange arrangements with a carrier
bj- rail shall be entitled to become a partj- to
an agreement for an agreed charge and to
participate in that agreed charge on a basis
of differentials to be agreed upon in respect
of the transport from or to a compétitive
point or between compétitive points served
by the carrier by water of goods with regard
to which the carrier by water is required by
this Act to file tariffs of tolls.
(6) An agreed charge shall be made on the
established basis of rate making and shall be
expressed in cents per hundred pounds or
other unit of weight or measurement as
is appropriate ; and the car-load rate for one
car shall not exceed the car-load rate for any
greater number of cars.
(7) An agreement for an agreed charge shall
prepared and executed in tarif f form, and
a duplicate original thereof shall, in accord-
ance with régulations prescribed by the
Commission, be filed with the Commission
within seven days after the day the agreement
was made, and the agreed charge takes effect
twenty days after the day the agreement
therefor was so filed.
(8) The agreement for an agreed charge,
after it has been filed with the Commission,
shall be published in the manner provided by
subsection 275(1) of the Railway Act.
(9) Where an agreement for an agreed
charge has been made between a carrier and
a shipper, any other shipper may with the
consent of the carrier become a party to the
agreement by filing a notice of intent with
the Commission in accordance with régula-
tions prescribed by the Commission, and the
agreed charge takes effect in relation to such
other shipper on such day, not earlier than
the day the agreement was made, as the
carrier and such other shipper may agrée
upon.
(10) Any shipper who considers that his
business is or will be unjustly discriminated
against by an agreed charge may at any time
apply to the Commission for a charge to be
fixed for the transport by the same carrier
with which the agreed charge was made of
goods of the shipper that are the same as or
similar to, and are offered for carriage under
substantially similar circumstances and con-
ditions as, the goods to which the agreed
charge relates, and, if the Commission is
àatisfied that the business of the shipper is or
will be unjustly discriminated against by the
agreed charge, it may fix a charge, including
the conditions to be attached thereto, to be
made by the carrier for the transport of the
goods of the shipper, and may fix the day on
which those charges shall be effective, not
being earlier than the day on which the
agreement for the agreed charge was made.
(11) Where an agreement for an agreed
charge or any amendment thereto has been
filed and notice of the issue of the charge has
been given in accordance with this Act and
the régulations, orders and directions of the
Commission, the charge shall conclusively be
deemed to be the lawful charge in respect of
the transport of the goods referred to in the
until it expires or is otherwise
and after the day on which the
takes effect, until it expires or is
terminated, the carrier shall make
the charge as specified therein.
(12) Notwithstanding anything in an agree-
ment for an agreed charge, any party to the
agreement, if it has been in effect at least one
year, may withdraw from the agreement by
giving written notice of withdrawal to ail the
other parties thereto at least ninety days
before the day upon which the withdrawal is
to become effective. 1955, c. 59, s. 1.

**33.** (1) Where an agreed charge has been
in effect for at least three months
  * (_a_) any carrier, or association of carriers, by
water or rail,
(6) any association or other body représent-
ative of the shippers of any locality, or
  * (_c_) any association or other body représent-
ative of the motor vehicle operators of
Canada or of a province thereof
may complain to the Minister that the agreed
charge is unjustly discriminatory against a
carrier or a motor vehicle operator or a shipper
or places his business at an unfair disadvan-
tage, and the Minister may, if he is satisfied
that in the public interest the complaint
should be investigated, refer the complaint to
the Commission for investigation.
(2) The Govemor in Council, if he has
i. u i ... u » j u
reason to believe that an agreed charge may
be undesirable in the public interest, may
refer the agreed charge to the Commission for
investigation.
(3) In dealing with a référence under this
section the Commission shall hâve regard to
ail considérations that appear to it to be
relevant, including the effect that the making
of the agreed charges has had or is likely to
hâve on the net revenue of the carriers who
are parties to it, and in particular shall
détermine whether the agreed charge is
undesirable in the public interest on the
ground that it is unjustly discriminatory
against any person complaining against it or
places his business at an unfair disadvantage
or on any other ground, and, if so directed by
the Governor in Council in a référence under
subsection (2), whether the agreed charge is
Undesirable in the public interest on the
ground that it places any othér form of
transportation services at an unfair disadvan-
tage.
(4) If the Commission, after a hearing, finds
that the agreed charge is undesirable in the
public interest on the ground that it is
unjustly discriminatory against any person
complaining against it or places his business
or any other form of transportation services
at an unfair disadvantage or on any other
ground, the Commission may make an order
varying or cancelling the agreed charge or
such other order as in the circumstances it
considers proper.
(5) When under this section the Commission
•
1 11 1
varies or cancels an agreed charge, any charge
fixed under subsection 32(10) in favour of a
shipper complaining of that agreed charge
ceases to operate or is subject to such
corresponding modifications as the Commis-
sion détermines. 1955, c. 59, s. 1 ; 1960-61,
c. 63, s. 1.

**34.** Nothing in this Part affects any right
or obligation granted or imposed by the
Maritime Freight Rates Act or by Term 32 of
the Terms of Union of Newfoundland with
Canada, or by subsection 265(8) or section 271
or 272 of the Railway Act. 1966-67, c. 69, s. 75.

**35.** This Part does not apply to the
transport by water of goods in bulk on waters
other than the Mackenzie River. R.S., c. 271,
s. 35.
