
# CHAPTERT.15
Act respecting the Department of Trans-
port

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Department
of Transport Act. R.S., c. 79, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"canal" means every canal and lock that
belongs to Canada and includes every canal
and lock acquired, constructed, extended,
enlarged, repaired or improved at the
expense of Canada, or for the acquisition,
construction, repairing, extending, enlarg-
ing or improving of which any public money
is voted and appropriated by Parliament,
except Works for which money has been
appropriated as a subsidy only, and ail
Works and property appertaining or inci-
dental to such canal or that are placed
under the control of the Minister by the
Governor in Council ;
"Department" means the Department of
Transport ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport ;
"railway" means every railway and the rolling
stock thereon that belongs to Canada, and
includes every railway and the rolling stock
thereon acquired, constructed, extended,
enlarged, repaired or improved at the
expense of Canada, or for the acquisition,
construction, repairing, extending, enlarg-
ing or improving of which any public money
is voted and appropriated by Parliament,
except Works for which money has been
appropriated as a subsidy only, and ail
Works and property appertaining or inci-
dental to such railway, or that are placed
under the control of the Minister by the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 79, s. 2.

## DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT

**3.** (]) There shall be a department of the
Government of Canada called the Department
of Transport over which the Minister of
Transport appointed by commission under
the Great Seal shall préside.
(2) The Minister has the management and
direction of the Department and holds office
during pleasure. R.S., c. 79, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Governor in Council may
appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister
of Transport to be the chief officer of the
Department and to hold office during pleas-
ure.
(2) A secretary of the Department, two or
more chief engineers and such other officers
as are necessary for the proper conduct of the
business of the Department may be appointed,
in the manner authorized bj- law, to hold
office during pleasure.
(3) Jn case of the absence of the Secretary,
or of his inability to act, the Minister may, in
writing, authorize some other officer of the
Department to act for the time in his stead.
(4) Qne of such chief engineers shall act as
chief engineer of one branch of the Depart-
ment, and another shall act as chief engineer
of the other branch of the Department, and
with respect to such works, or classes of works,
as the Governor in Council, from time to
time, directs. R.S., c. 79, s. 4.

**5.** The Secretary of the Department shall,
unless otherwise directed in any case by the
Minister,
  * (_a_) keep separate accounts of the moneys
appropriated for and expended on each
railway or canal under the management of
the Minister ;
  * (_b_) submit such accounts to be audited in
such manner as is appointed by law, or by
the Governor in Council ;
  * (_c_) hâve charge of ail plans, contracts,
estimâtes, documents, titles, models and
other like things relating to any such
railway or canal ;
  * (_d_) keep proper accounts with each contrac-
tor or other person employed by or under
the Department ;
  * (_e_) see that ail contracts are properly drawn
up and executed ;
(/) prépare ail certificates upon which any
certificate for the payment of money is to
issue;
  * (_g_) keep minutes of ail proceedings of the
Department ;
  * (_h_) prépare reports and conduct, under the
direction of the Minister, the correspondence
of the Department ; and
  * (_i_) generally do and perform ail such acts
and things appertaining to the business of
the Department as he is, from time to time,
directed by the Minister to do and perform.
R.S., c. 79, s. 5.

**6.** The chief engineers respectively shall
  * (_a_) prépare maps, plans and estimâtes for
ail railways and canals that are about to be
constructed, altered or repaired by or under
the management of the Minister ;
  * (_b_) report, for the information of the
Minister, on any question relating to any
such railway or canal that is submitted to
them;
  * (_c_) examine and revise the plans, estimâtes
and recommendations of other engineers,
architects and officers in respect of any
such railway or canal ; and
  * (_d_) generally advise the Minister on ail
engineering or architectural questions
affecting any such work. R.S., c. 79, s. 6.

## POWERS OF THE MINISTER

**7.** (1) The Minister has the management,
charge and direction of ail Government
railways and canals, of ail works and property
appertaining or incident to such railways and
canals, of the collection of tolls on the public
canals and of matters incident thereto, and of
the officers and persons employed in that
(2) The Minister has and may exercise any
to civil aviation in the Minister of
Defence, by any Act, order or
(3) The duties, powers and functions of the
Minister extend and apply to such boards and
other public bodies, subjects, services and
properties of the Crown as may be designated
or assigned to the Minister by the Governor
in Council, over which the Minister shall hâve
the control, régulation, management and
supervision. R.S., c. 79, s. 7.

**8.** Whenever, by any Act or document, the
Minister of Public Works is given any power
or authority, or has a duty conferred upon
him in regard to railways or canals, or other
public Works of any of the classes that, by this
or any other Act or by an order in council
made under any Act, are placed under the
management, charge and direction of the
Minister of Transport, or in regard to anj-
railway, canal or other work of any of the
classes aforesaid, whether they are or are not
the property of Her Majesty, the power or
authority so given, or the duty so conferred
upon the Minister of Public Works, shall be
exercised or performed by the Minister of
Transport. R.S., c. 79, s. 8.

**9.** The Minister shall direct the construc-
tion, maintenance and repair of ail railways
and canals and of ail other works appertaining
or incident thereto that are constructed or
maintained at the expense of Canada and are
placed under his management and control.
R.S., c. 79, s. 9.

**10.** Nothing in this Act authorizes the
Minister to cause expenditure not previously
sanctioned by Parliament, except for such
repairs and altérations as the necessities of
the public service demand. R.S., c. 79, s. 10.

**11.** The Minister or the Deputy Minister,
or any officer of the Department whose duty
it is to investigate, pay or certify for payment
any claim, may require any account sent in
by any contractor or any person in the employ
of the Minister, or any claim for damages, to
be attested on oath and the oath, as well as
that taken by any witness, may be adminis-
tered by the Minister, the Deputy Minister or
such officer. R.S., c. 79, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The Minister may send for and
examine on oath ail such persons as he deems
necessary with respect to any matter upon
which his action is required, and may cause
such persons to bring with them such papers,
plans, books, documents and things as it is
necessary to examine with référence to such
matter, and may pay such persons a reasonable
compensation for their time and disburse-
ments.
(2) Such persons shall comply with the
summons of the Minister after due notice;
and every person so summoned who neglects
or refuses to attend and be examined shall
incur a penalty of twenty dollars in each case.
R.S., c. 79, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Minister, in ail cases in which
any public work under his control is being
carried out by contract, shall take ail
reasonable care that good and sufficient
security is given to and in the name of Her
Majesty for the due performance of the work,
within the amount and time specified for its
completion.
(2) In ail cases in which it seems to the
Minister not to be expédient to let such work
to the lowest tenderer, he shall report the
same and obtain the authority of the Governor
in Council before passing by such lowest
tender. R.S., c. 79, s. 13.

**14.** No sum of money shall be paid to the
contracter on any contract, nor shall any work
be commenced, until the contract has been
signed by ail the parties therein named, nor
until the requisite security has been given.
R.S.,c. 79,s. 14.

## EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS

**15.** ^q deed, contract, document or writing
relating to any matter under the control or
direction of the Minister is binding upon Her
Majesty unless it is signed by the Minister, or
unless it is signed by the Deputy Minister
by the Minister or by some person
acting for him or for Her Majesty. R.S., c. 79,

**15.**

## PROCEDURE

**16.** Ali actions, suits and other proceedings
at law or in equity, for the enforcement of
any contract, agreement or obhgation in
respect of any railway or any canal under the
control of the Minister, or in respect of the
construction, maintenance, working or repair
of the same, may be instituted in the name
of the Attorney General of Canada. R.S., c.
79, s. 16.

## EVIDENCE

**17.** A copy of any map, plan or other
document in the custody of the Secretary of
the Department, certified by him to be a true
copy, shall be held to be authentic, and is
prima facie of the same légal effect as the
original. R.S., c. 79, s. 17.

## MONEYS PAYABLE BY HER MAJESTY NOT

## ATTACHABLE

**18.** (1) Moneys in the hands of an officer,
employée or servant of the Minister, as an
officer or servant of Her Majesty, due or
paj'able bj- Her Majesty to any person, or out
of which any payment on behalf of Her
Majestj' is to be made, and given to or being
in the possession of such officer, employée or
servant for the purpose of making such
payment, are not subject to any exécution,
attachment or garnishee process.
(2) Where any such officer, employée or
servant is served with any exécution, attach-
ment or garnishee process in regard to such
moneys, it maj' be set asidc, with costs, by
any court of compétent jurisdiction. R.S., c.
79, s. 18.
STORES ACCOUTSTTS

**19.** Advances for the railwaj' stores account
be made, from time to time, out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Minister
enable him to obtain, produce , manufacture,
use and dispose of ail necessary materials,
equipment and stores, required or used in
Administration Act. R.S., c. 79, s. 19.

**20.** The stores account shall be debited
with the cost of materials, equipment and
stores purchased and of work performed and
expenses incurred in connection therewith,
together with the cost of establishing, main-
taining and conducting the railway stores,
and shall be credited with the values of
materials, equipment and stores as issued and
charged to proper appropriations or otherwise
disposed of. R.S., c. 79, s. 20.

**21.** The balance to the débit of the stores
account of the Canadian Government Rail-
ways shall not at any time exceed six million
dollars. R.S., c. 79, s. 21.

## SUSPENSE ACCOUNTS

**22.** (1) Upon the authority and approval
of the Governor in Council, suspense accounts
may be opened and established, from time to
time, and thereafter carried or continued, to
enable the Minister to make provision for the
renewals of equipment and rails, for loss and
damage by fire to railway property, and for
the purposes of traffic audit, of the Canadian
Government Railways.
(2) Such accounts, and payments made
thereunder, are subject to the audit of the
Auditor General of Canada. R.S., c. 79, s. 22.

## TOLLS ON CANALS

**23.** (1) The Govemor in Council may
impose and authorize the collection of tolls
and dues upon any canal, and may from time
to time in like manner, alter and change such
or tolls, and may déclare the exemptions
and ail such dues and tolls are, if
the canal in respect of which they are incurred
accrues.
(2) AU tolls and dues imposed under this
Act may be recovered, with costs, in any court
of compétent jurisdiction, by the collector or
person appointed to receive them, in his own
name or in the name of Her Majestj', and bj'
any form of proceeding by which debts to the
Crown are recoverable.
(3) The goods on board of any steamboat,
vessel, raft, crib or other craft, to whomever
they belong, are liable for any tolls, dues or
penalties imposed and levied under this Act,
and they may be seized, detained and sold in
the same manner as the steamboat, vessel,
raft, crib or other craft in which they are, and
as if they belonged to the person violating
any such régulation, saving the recourse of
the real owner thereof against such person
who is deemed the owner for the purposes of
this Act.
(4) The same tolls are payable on steam-
boats or vessels of any kind, and passengers,
taken down the St. Lawrence River past any
of the canals between Montréal and Kingston,
as would be payable on such steamboats,
vessels or passengers, if they had been taken
through the canal or canals past which they
are so taken down; and such tolls shall be
levied in like manner and under the like
penalties and forfeitures for the non-payment
thereof. R.S., c. 79, s. 23.

**24.** Ail tolls, dues or other revenues
imposed and collected under this Act shall be
paid by the persons receiving them to the
Receiver General in such manner and at such
intervais as he appoints, but such intervais
shall in no case exceed one month. R.S., c. 79,
s. 24 ; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 105.

## REGULATIONS FOR USE OF CANALS

**25.** The Governor in Council may make
such régulations as he deems necessary for
the management, maintenance, proper use
and protection of ail or any of the canals or
other Works under the management or control
of the Minister, and for the ascertaining and
of the tolls, dues and revenues
thereon. R.S., c. 79, s. 25.

**26.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by
such régulations,
  * (_a_) impose such penalties, not exceeding in
any one case four hundred dollars, for any
violation of anj' such régulation, as he
deems necessary for ensuring its observance
and the payment of the tolls and dues
imposed as aforesaid ;
  * (_b_) provide for the non-passing or détention
and seizure, at the risk of the owner, of any
steamboat, vessel, raft, crib or other craft,
timber or goods, on which tolls or dues hâve
accrued and hâve not been paid, or in
respect of which any such régulations hâve
been violated, or any injury done to such
canals and not paid for, or for or on account
of which any penalty has been incurred and
remains unpaid, and for the sale thereof, if
such tolls, dues, damages or penalty are not
paid by the time fixed for the purpose, and
for the payment of such tolls, dues, damages
or penalty out of the proceeds of such sale ;
but no such régulation impairs the right of
the Crown to recover such tolls, dues,
penalty or damages in the ordinary course
of law.
(2) The surplus proceeds of such sale, if
any, shall be returned to the owner or his
agent. R.S., c. 79, s. 26.

## PENALTIES

**27.** Every one who is an officer or servant
of or a person employed by the Minister on
any canal, and who wilfully or negligently
violâtes any order or régulation of the
Department, or any order in council, respect-
ing the canal on which he is employed, and
of which a copy has been delivered to him, or
has been posted up or open to his inspection
in some place where his work or duties, or any
of them, are to be performed, if such violation
causes injury to any property or to any
person, or exposes any property or any person
to the risk of injury, or renders such risk
greater than it would hâve been but for such
violation, although no actual injury occurs, is
of an indictable offence, and is,
according as the court before which the
conviction is had considers the offence proved
to be more or less grave, or the injury or risk
of injury to person or property to be more or
less great, liable to a penalty not exceeding
four hundred dollars, or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or to both.
R.S.,c. 79, s. 27.

**28.** Where such violation does not cause
injury to any property or person, or expose
any property or person to the risk of injury,
or make such risk greater than it would hâve
been but for such violation, the officer, servant
or other person guilty thereof shall incur a
penalty, not exceeding the amount of thirty
days pay and not less than fifteen days pay
of the offender from the Department, in the
discrétion of the justice of the peace before
whom the conviction is had ; and such penalty
is recoverable, with costs, before any justice
of the peace having jurisdiction where the
offence has been committed or where the
offender is found. R.S., c. 79, s. 28.

**29.** A moiety of every pecuniary penalty
recovered under either section 27 or 28 belongs
to Her Majesty for the public uses of Canada,
and the other moiety belongs to the informer,
unless he is an officer or servant of or person
in the employ of the Minister, in which case
the whoie penalty belongs to Her Majesty,
for the uses aforesaid. R.S., c. 79, s. 29.

## RECOVERY OF PENALTIES

**30.** Ail pecuniary penalties imposed by
this Act, or by any régulation made under
the authority thereof, are recoverable, with
costs, before any justice of the peace for the
district, county, or place in which the offence
was committed, under the provisions of the
Criminal Code relating to summary convic-
tions, and if sufficient distress cannot be
found, and such penalty is not forthwith paid,
the justice may, by warrant under his hand
and seal, cause the person offending to be
exceeding thirty days, unless such penalty
costs are sooner paid, R.S., c. 79, s. 30.

**31.** Such penalties, except as hereinbefore
provided, belong to Her Majesty, for the
public uses of Canada. R.S., c. 79, s. 31.

## GENERAL

**32.** Ail contracts, bonds, agreements or
leases for or respecting any railway or canal
now the property of Canada, or for any tolls
imposed for their use, entered into by the
Commissioner of Public Works of the former
Province of Canada, or by the Board of Works
of the Province of Nova Scotia or of the
Province of New Brunswick, or by any
commissioners or other persons duly author-
i2ed to enter into them in any province of
Canada, enure to the use of Her Majesty, and
may be enforced as if they had been entered
into with Her Majesty under the authority of
this Act. R.S., c. 79, s. 32.

**33.** The Govemor in Council may, from
time to time, require any person or any
provincial authority having the possession or
custody of any maps, plans, spécifications,
estimâtes, reports or other papers, books,
drawings, instruments, models, contracts,
documents or records, that are not private
property and that relate to any railway,
building or property connected therewith. or
to any canal under the control of the Minister,
to deliver the same without delay to the
Secretary of the Department. R.S., c. 79, s. 33.

**34.** The Minister shall make and submit to
the Govemor General an annual report on ail
the railways and canals under his control, and
the annual report shall be laid before both
Houses of Parliament within twenty-one days
after the commencement of the session,
showing the state of each work and the
amounts received and expended in respect
thereof, with such further information as is
requisite. R.S., c. 79, s. 34.
