
# CHAPTERT.16
An Act respecting trust companies

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Trust
Companies Act. R.S., c. 272, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"annual gênerai meeting" includes the gênerai
meeting of shareholders at which the
directors of the company are elected ;
"the company" or "trust companj'" means a
company incorporated for the purpose of
  * (_a_) exercising the powers set forth in section
63, or
(6) executing the office of executor,
administrator or trustée, either with or
without other objects or powers ;
"a corporation incorporated in Canada"
means a corporation that has been incor-
porated in Canada either before or after
Confédération ;
"Department" means the Department of
Insurance constituted by the Department of
Insurance Act;
"guaranteed investment certificate" means a
certificate issued by a trust company in
évidence of the deposit of guaranteed trust
money and the guarantee thereof by the
company ;
"guaranteed trust money" means money
received by a trust company in trust for
investment subject to a guarantee by the
company in respect of the payment of
interest or the repayment of principal ;
means the Minister of Finance;
tenure and ail immovable property of any
kind;
"shareholder" means every subscriber to or
holder of stock in the company and includes
the Personal représentatives of the share-
holder ;
"Superintendent" means the Superintendent
of Insurance ;
"unguaranteed trust money" means trust
money other than guaranteed trust money
received by a trust company. R.S., c. 272, s.
2; 1958, c. 42, s. 1.

## APPLICATION OF ACT

**3.** (1) This Act applies to every trust
company incorporated by
  * (_a_) a spécial Act of the Parliament of
Canada, or
(6) letters patent issued under authority of
an Act of the Parliament of Canada.
(2) Part rV of the Canada Corporations Act,
relating to "companies clauses", shall not, on
or after the Ist day of July 1947, apply to a
trust company incorporated by a spécial Act
of the Parliament of Canada.
(3) Where a trust company has been
incorporated by letters patent under authority
of an Act of the Parliament of Canada, none
of the provisions of that Act inconsistent with
this Act are applicable to the company on or
after the Ist day of July 1947. R.S., c. 272,
s. 3.

## INCORPORATION AND ORGAOTZATION

**4.** No trust company shall, after the 12th
day of June 1914, be incorporated by letters
patent under Part I of the Canada Corporations
Act. R.S., c. 272, s. 4.

**5.** The capital stock of every trust company,
the name of the trust company, the place
where its head office is to be situated, and
name, place of résidence and calling of
of the provisional directors, shall be
in the Act of incorporation of the
trust Company. 1958, c. 42, s. 2.

**6.** Every trust company incorporated by
Act in the form set forth in the schedule is a
body corporate by the name contained in its
Act of incorporation, capable of exercising ail
the functions of an incorporated company.
1958, c. 42, s. 3.

**7.** (1) A company may request the Gover-
nor in Council to provide it with a French or
English form of its corporate name and the
Governor in Council may, by order, in
accordance with the request, provide the
company with a French or English form of
its corporate name.
(2) Before any such request is made to the
Governor in Council, notice of the intention
to make the request, showing therein the
French or English form of the corporate name
to be requested, as the case may be, shall be
pubiished at least once a week for a period of
four consécutive weeks in the Canada Gazette
and in a newspaper pubiished at or near the
place where the head office of the company
is situated.
(3) An order made under subsection (1)
shall be pubiished by the Governor in Council
in the Canada Gazette.
(4) A requested French or English name
shall not be given to a company under this
section if
  * (_a_) the requested form is the same as the
name of any corporation, association or
firm carrying on business in Canada or
incorporated under the laws of Canada or
of any province thereof, or so nearly
resembles that name as to be in the opinion
of the Governor in Council likely to deceive
or likely to be confused with that name,
unless the corporation, association or firm
is in the course of being dissolved or of
changing its name and signifies its consent
in such manner as the Governor in Council
may require ; or
(6) the requested form is otherwise on public
grounds objectionable.
(5) After the publication of an order made
under subsection (1), the Company mentioned
in that order may from time to time as it sees
fit use, or it may be legally designated by,
either the French or English form of its
corporate name as provided in the order, or
both forms; and, except as provided in this
subsection, the provision of a French or
English form of a corporate name does not
affect in any way the rights, powers, obliga-
tions or liabilities of the company. 1964-65, c.
40, s. 27.

**8.** The number of provisional directors
shall be not less than five, a majority of whom
constitutes a quorum. R.S., c. 272, s. 7.

**9.** (1) The provisional directors may, after
giving notice thereof by advertisement in one
or more newspapers published at the place
where the head office of the company is
situated and in the Canada Gazette, open
stock books, procure subscriptions of stock,
make calls in respect of stock not fully paid
up, and do generally whatever may be
necessary to organize the company.
(2) The first of such calls shall not exceed
twenty-five per cent of the amount subscribed
and no subséquent call shall exceed ten per
cent thereof, and such calls shall be made at
intervais of not less than thirty days.
(3) Not less than thirty days notice shall be
given of any call, and any notice of call may
be effectually given by sending the notice by
registered mail to the latest known address of
each shareholder as contained in the books of
the company.
(4) The provisional directors may if they
think fit receive from any shareholder willing
to advance the same ail or any part of the
monej' due upon the shares held by him
beyond the sums actually called for.
(5) Upon the money so paid in advance, or
se much thereof as from time to time exceeds
the amount of the calls then due upon the
in respect of which the advance has
made, the company may pay interest at
rate as the shareholder paying the sum
advance and the directors may agrée upon.
(6) The provisional directors shall deposit
to the crédit of the company in a chartered
bank ail moneys received by them on account
of stock subscribed or otherwise on account of
the company, and may withdraw the moneys
so deposited for the purposes of the company
only. R.S., c. 272, s. 8.

**10.** The provisional directors hold office
until directors are elected by the shareholders
qualified as hereinafter provided. R.S., c. 272,
s. 9.
j 1. (1) As soon as the amount named for
that purpose in the company's Act of
incorporation has been bona fide subscribed
and ten per cent of that amount has been
paid into a chartered bank in Canada, the
provisional directors may call a gênerai
meeting of the shareholders to be held at the
place named in the Act of incorporation where
the head office of the company is to be
situated.
(2) For the purpose of the organization of
the company under this Act,
  * (_a_) stock upon which less than ten per cent
has been paid in cash by the subscriber shall
not be deemed to hâve been bona fide
subscribed; and
{b) any sum paid by any subscriber that is
less than ten per cent of the amount
subscribed by him shall not be taken into
account as part of the sums paid in on
account of subscriptions of stock.
(3) At such meeting only the shareholders
who hâve paid in cash at least ten per cent of
the amount of the shares subscribed for by
them are qualified to vote. R.S., c. 272, s. 11 ;
1958, c. 42, s. 4.

**12.** (1) The shareholders so qualified shall
at such meeting
  * (_a_) détermine the day upon which the
annual gênerai meeting of the company is
to be held,
  * (_b_) elect such number of directors duly
qualified under this Act as they think
quorum, except that when the number
exceeds thirteen the quorum is seven, and
  * (_c_) appoint an auditor or auditors to hold
office until the first annual gênerai meeting.
(2) Upon the élection of directors the
functions of the provisional directors cease.
R.S., c. 272, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The Company shall not commence
business by exercising any of the powers set
forth in section 63 until it has obtained from
the Minister a certificate permitting it to do
so.
(2) No application for a certificate under
this section shall be made and no certificate
shall be given until it has been shown to the
satisfaction of the Minister by affidavit or
otherwise that
  * (_a_) the board of directors has been duly
elected;
(6) the provisions of the company's Act of
incorporation relating to subscription and
payment for stock hâve been complied
with;
  * (_c_) ail other requirements of this Act
antécédent to the granting of a certificate
hâve been complied with ; and
  * (_d_) the expenses of incorporation and
organization are reasonable.
(3) The particulars of ail liabilities of the
Company shall be disclosed to the Minister at
the time the application is made.
(4) No certificate under this section shall
be given unless application therefor is made
within two years after the passing of the
company's Act of incorporation, or within
such extended period not exceeding one year
as the Governor in Council before the
expiration of such two years allows.
(5) Where a certificate has not been obtained
^^ provided in this section, the company's Act
of incorporation thereupon ceases to be in
force, except for the purpose of winding up
the affairs of the company and returning to
subscribers the amount paid by them upon
subscribed stock or so much thereof as
the Minister permitting the company to
commence business shall be published by the
company in the Canada Gazette and in at
least one newspaper in the city or place where
the head office of the company is situated,
and such publication shall be continued for a
period of four weeks. R.S., c. 272, s. 14.

## INTERNAL REGULATIONS

**15.** The shareholders of the company may,
at any annual gênerai meeting or at any
spécial gênerai meeting duly called for the
purpose, fix and regulate by by-law the
foUowing matters incident to the management
and administration of the affairs of the
company, namely,
  * (_a_) the day on which the annual gênerai
meeting shall be held ;
(6) the notice to be given to shareholders of
spécial gênerai meetings ;
  * (_c_) the requirements as to proxies, the record
to be kept of them, and the time not
exceeding ten days within which proxies
must be produced and recorded prior to a
meeting in order to entitle the holder to
vote thereon ;
  * (_d_) the number of directors, but the number
thereof shall not be less than five nor more
than thirty and a majority constitutes a
quorum, except that when the number
exceeds thirteen the quorum is seven ;
  * (_e_) subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the qualifications of directors ;
(J) the rémunération of the président, vice-
présidents and other directors ; and
  * (_g_) the exercise of the borrowing powers of
the company. R.S., c. 272, s. 15.

**16.** (1) The élection of directors shall take
(3) Where it happens at any élection that
two or more persons hâve an equal number of
and the élection or non-election of one
or more persons as a director or directors
dépends on such equality, then the directors
who hâve a greater number of votes or a
majority of them shall, in order to complète
the full number of directors, détermine which
of the said persons having an equal number
of votes shall be a director or directors.
(4) Where, at any time, an élection of
directors is not made or does not take effect
at the proper time, the company shall not be
held to be thereby dissolved, but such élection
may take place at any gênerai meeting of the
company, duly called for that purpose, and
the retiring directors shall continue in office
until their successors are elected. R.S., c. 272,
s. 16.

**17.** Directors hold office until the annual
gênerai meeting in the year succeeding their
élection, and if otherwise qualified are eligible
for re-election. R.S., c. 272, s. 17.

**18.** No shareholder is eligible for élection
as a director unless he holds in his own name
and for his own use shares of the capital stock
of the company on which at least five hundred
dollars has been paid to the company as
capital or credited by the company as capital
and has paid in cash ail calls due thereon and
ail liabilities incurred bj' him to the company ;
and, if any director makes an assignment for
the benefit of creditors or cornes within the
opération of any insolvency law or ceases to
hold shares on which at least five hundred
dollars has been paid as capital or credited as
capital as aforesaid, he thereupon ceases to
be a director. 1964-65, c. 40, s. 28.

**19.** The majority of the directors of the
company shall at ail times be persons résident
in Canada and subjects of Her Majesty by
birth or naturalization. R.S., c. 272, s. 19.

**20.** Vacancies occurring in the board of
may be filled for the remainder ol
term by the directors from among the
shareholders of the company, but if
vacancy is not filled the acts of a quorum
the remaining directors are not thereby
invalidated. R.S., c. 272, s. 20.

**21.** (1) The directors, as soon as possible
after their élection, shall from among them-
selves elect by ballot a président, and one or
more vice-présidents, and may at any time
from among themselves elect a chairman of
the board of directors.
(2) Where the number of directors is more
than six, the directors may, by by-law duly
passed by the directors and confirmed by at
least two-thirds of the votes cast at a spécial
gênerai meeting of the company duly called
for considering the by-law, provide for the
élection from their number of an executive
committee of not less than three members.
(3) The executive committee may fix its
quorum at not less than a majority of its
members and may, subject to any restriction
in its constituting b^'-law or in régulations
made by the directors, exercise such of the
powers of the directors as are delegated to it
by that by-law.
(4) None of the powers conferred on the
directors by paragraphs 26(l)(a),(6),(c),(e) and
if) and sections 29, 30, 32, 33, 48 and 70 shall
be delegated to an executive committee under
this section. R.S., c. 272, s. 21.

**22.** (1) The chairman of the board, or in
his absence or if there is no chairman of the
board, the président or a vice-président, shall
préside at meetings of the board, but if none
of such officers is présent at any meeting of
the board, a chairman selected by the directors
présent shall préside at the meeting.
(2) The président, or in his absence a vice-
président or the chairman of the board, shall
préside at ail meetings of the shareholders,
but if none of such officers is présent at any
meeting of the shareholders, a chairman
selected by the shareholders présent shall
préside at the meeting.
(3) The person presiding may vote as a
at meetings of the board and as a
at meetings of shareholders, and
in case of an equality of votes at any meeting
he shall hâve a second or casting vote. R.S.,
c. 272, s. 22.

**23.** (1) Where a vacancy occurs in the
office of président or vice-président, the
directors shall from among themselves elect a
président or vice-président, who shall continue
in office until the next élection of directors.
(2) Where at any time an élection of
directors is not made or does not take effect
at the proper time, the company shall not be
held to be thereby dissolved, but such élection
may take place at any gênerai meeting of the
Company duly called for that purpose and
the retiring directors shall continue in office
until their successors are elected. R.S., c. 272,
s. 23.

**24.** The directors may establish branch
offices and local advisory boards either within
Canada or elsewhere, at such times and in
such manner as they deem expédient. R.S., c.
272, s. 24.

**25.** The directors may in ail things admin-
ister the affairs of the company and may
make or cause to be made for the company
any description of contract that the company
may by law enter into. R.S., c. 272, s. 25.
BY-LAWS

**26.** (1) The directors may make by-laws
not contrary to law or to this Act or to any
by-law duly passed by the shareholders for
  * (_a_) regulating the allotment of stock, the
making of calls thereon, the payment
thereof, the issue and registration of
certificates of stock, the issue of share
warrants, the forfeiture of stock for non-
payment, the disposai of forfeited stock
and of the proceeds thereof, and the transfer
of stock ;
(6) the déclaration and payment of divi-
dends;
  * (_c_) setting aside out of premium on shares
or of profits a reserve fund hereinafter
called "reserve" ;
  * (_d_) the appointment, functions, duties and
removal of ail agents, officers, and servants
of the companj', the security to be given by
them to the company and their rémunéra-
tion;
  * (_e_) the time and place for the holding of
meetings of the board of directors and the
procédure in ail things at such meetings;
if) the imposition and recovery of ail
penalties and forfeitures admitting of
régulation by by-law ; and
{g) the conduct in ail other particulars of
the affairs of the companj'.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), a by-law made
under subsection (1) ceases to be in force at
the date of the next foUowing annual gênerai
meeting uniess it is confirmed at that meeting.
(3) Where a spécial gênerai meeting, called
for the purpose of confirming a by-law made
under subsection (1) or called for that and
any other purpose, is held before the next
following annual gênerai meeting, the bj'-law
ceases to be in force at the date of the spécial
gênerai meeting uniess it is confirmed at that
spécial gênerai meeting, and subsection (2)
does not apply to a by-law that is so
confirmed. R.S., c. 272, s. 26.

## CAPITAL STOCK AND CALLS THEREON

**27.** (1) The Capital stockof a trust company
shall be divided into shares of one hundred
dollars each.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a com-
pany may, if authorized by by-law duly
passed by the directors and confirmed by at
least two-thirds of the votes cast at a spécial
gênerai meeting of shareholders duly called
for considering the by-law, provide that the
capital stock shall be divided into shares of
dollar, or any multiple thereof not
exceeding one hundred dollars, each. 1958, c.
s. 6; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 29.

**28.** The stock of the company is personal
and is transférable in the manner, and
to the conditions and restrictions
by this Act or the by-laws of the
Company. R.S., c. 272, s. 28.

**29.** (1) Where any shares issued by the
Company are not fully paid up, the directors
may make calls upon the holders thereof, at
such times and places and in such amounts as
are required or allowed by this Act and the
by-laws made thereunder.
(2) The first of such calls shall not in respect
of shares subscribed after the organization of
the Company exceed twenty-five per cent, and
no subséquent call in respect of shares
subscribed before or after organization shall
exceed ten per cent.
(3) Not less than thirty days notice shall be
given of any call, and any notice of call may
be effectually given by sending the notice by
registered mail to the latest known address of
each shareholder as contained in the books of
the Company.
(4) There shall be an interval of not less
than thirty days between the times at which
successive calls are payable.
(5) Interest shall accrue and fall due, at the
rate of five per cent per annum, upon the
amount of any unpaid call, from the daj^
appointed for payment of such call.
(6) The directors may if they think fit
receive from any shareholder willing to
advance the same ail or any part of the
money due upon the shares held by him
beyond the sums actually called for.
(7) Upon the money so paid in advance or
so much thereof as from time to time exceeds
the amount of the calls then due upon the
shares in respect of which the advance has
been made, the company may pay interest at
such rate as the shareholder paying the sum
in advance and the directors may agrée upon.
R.S., c. 272, s. 29.

**30.** (1) Where any shareholder fails to pay
any call or instalment on or before the day
appointed for the payment of the same, the
address as shownby the bocks of the company,
requesting him to pay the same together with
any interest that may hâve accrued.
(2) The notice shall name a day not less
than thirty days from the date of mailing the
notice and a place or places on and at which
the call or instalment and the interest are to
be paid, and shall also state that in the event
of non-paj-ment at or before the time and at
the place appointed the shares in respect of
which the call was made or instalment is
payable will be liable to be forfeited.
(3) Where the réquisitions of any such
notice are not complied with, any shares in
respect of which the notice has been given
may at any time thereafter, before payment
of ail calls or instalments and interest due in
respect thereof, be forfeited by resolution of
the directors to that effect, and the forfeiture
shall include ail dividends declared in respect
of the forfeited shares and not actually paid
before the forfeiture.
(4) Notwithstanding such forfeiture, the
holder of the shares at the time of forfeiture
continues liable to the creditors of the
Company at that time for the full amount
unpaid on the shares at the time of forfeiture,
less any sums that are subsequentlj' received
by the company in respect thereof.
(5) When any share has been so forfeited,
notice by registered mail as aforesaid of the
resolution shall be given to the shareholder
in whose name it stood immediately prior to
the forfeiture, and an entrj- of the forfeiture
with the date thereof shall forthwith be made
in the proper books of the company.
(6) Any share so forfeited shall be deemed
to be the property of the company, and the
directors may sell, re-allot and otherwise
dispose of the share in such manner as they
think fit.
(7) The directors may at any time before
any share so forfeited has been sold, re-
allotted or otherwise disposed of, annul the
forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as
they think fit. R.S., c. 272, s. 30.
3 1. (1) No share is transférable until ail
calls due thereon up to the date of transfer
been full}- paid, or until it is declared
forfeited for non-payment of a call or calls
thereon.
(2) No transfer of shares in respect of which
the whole amount subscribed has not been
paid in shall be made without the consent of
the directors. R.S., c. 272, s. 31.

## PREFERENCE STOCK

**32.** (1) The directors may make by-laws
for creating and issuing any part of the
capital stock of the company as préférence
stock, which préférence stock maj' be preferred
in any respect and deferred in any other
respect ; and without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, the préférence stock may be
either preferred or deferred in matters of the
division of profits, payment of dividends and
bonuses, élection of directors, voting at
meetings, rank with respect to capital, and in
winding-up proceedings and in such other
matters and respects as may be deemed
advisable and as anj' such by-law ma}-
provide.
(2) No such by-law has any force or effect
whatever until after it has been unanimously
sanctioned by a vote of the shareholders
présent in person or represented bj' proxy at
a gênerai meeting of the company duly called
for considering the by-law, and representing
two-thirds of the subscribed and issued stock
of the company, or unanimously sanctioned
in writing by the shareholders of the company.
(3) Where the by-law is sanctioned by not
less than three-fourths in value of the
shareholders of the company, the company
may through the Minister pétition the
Govemor in Council for an order approving
the by-law, and the Governor in Council may,
if he sees fit, approve thereof, and from the
date of such approval the by-law is valid and
may be acted upon. R.S., c. 272, s. 32.
mCREASE OF CAPITAL STOCK

**33.** (1) The directors may, after the whole
authorized capital stock of the company has
subscribed and fifty per cent paid
thereon in cash, increase the capital stock
from time to time to an amount not exceeding
the sum named for that purpose in the Act
incorporating the companj'.
(2) The stock shall not be increased until a
resolution of the board of directors authorizing
the increase has been first submitted to and
confirmed by the shareholders présent or
represented by proxy at a spécial gênerai
meeting of the shareholders of the companj'
duly called for that purpose, the vote in
faveur of such resolution being that of
shareholders holding not less than two-thirds
of the subscribed capital stock of the company.
R.S., c. 272, s. 33.

## SHARE WARRANTS

**34.** (1) The Company may, if so provided
by by-law with respect to any share that is
fully paid up, issue under its common seal a
warrant stating that the bearer of the warrant
is entitled to the share or shares therein
specified, and may provide by coupons or
otherwise for the payment of the future
dividends on the share or shares included in
the warrant, hereinafter referred to as a
"share warrant".
(2) A share warrant entitles the bearer of
the share warrant to the shares specified in it
and those shares may be transferred by the
delivery of the share warrant.
(3) The bearer of a share warrant is, subject
to the by-laws of the company, entitled on
surrendering the share warrant for cancellation
to hâve his name entered as a shareholder in
the books of the company, and the company
is responsible for any loss incurred by any
person by reason of the company entering in
its books the name of any bearer of a share
warrant in respect of the shares specified
therein without the share warrant being
surrendered and cancelled.
(4) The bearer of a share warrant may, if
the by-law so pro vides, be deemed to be a
of the company within the
meaning of this Act either to the fuU extent
or for such purposes as are prescribed by the
by-law, but the bearer of a share warrant is
not qualified in respect of the shares specified
the Company.
(5) On the issue of a share warrant in
of any share or shares, the company
strike out of its books the name of the
shareholder then entered therein as holding
such share or shares as if he had ceased to be
a shareholder, and shall enter in the books
the following particulars :
  * (_o_) the fact of the issue of the share
warrant ;
(6) a statement of the number of shares
included in the share warrant ; and
  * (_c_) the date of the issue of the share
warrant ;
and until the share warrant is surrendered the
above particulars shall be deemed to be the
particulars that are required by section 35 to
be entered in the books of the company in
respect of such share or shares, and on the
surrender of a share warrant the date of the
surrender shall be entered as if it were the
date at which a person ceased to be a
shareholder.
(6) The by-laws may détermine the condi-
tions upon which share warrants shall be
issued, and in particular upon which a new
share warrant or coupon will be issued in the
place of one worn out, defaced, lost or
destroyed, and the conditions upon which the
bearer of a share warrant is entitled to attend
and vote at gênerai meetings and upon which
a share warrant may be surrendered and the
name of the holder entered in the books of
the company in respect of the shares therein
specified.
(7) Unless the bearer of a share warrant is
entitled to attend and vote at gênerai
meetings, the shares represented by the share
warrant shall not be counted as part of the
stock of the company for the purposes of à
gênerai meeting.
(8) The holder of a share warrant is subject
to the by-laws for the time being in force,
whether made before or after the issue of the
share warrant. R.S., c. 272, s. 34.

## BOOKS OF THE COMPANY
  * (_a_) a copy of the spécial Act of incorpora-
tion, letters patent or other incorporating
instrument, with ail amendments thereto,
and of the mémorandum of agreement and
ail by-laws of the company ;
(6) the names, alphabetically arranged, of
ail persons who are or hâve been sharehold-
ers, together with the address and calling
of every such person while a shareholder as
far as can be ascertained ;
  * (_c_) the number of shares of stock held by
each shareholder ;
  * (_d_) the amounts paid in and remaining
unpaid, respectively, on the shares of stock
of each shareholder;
  * (_e_) ail transfers of stock, in their order as
presented to the company for entry, with
the date and other particulars of each
transfer, and the date of the entry thereof ;
and
(/) the names, addresses and callings of ail
persons who are or hâve been directors of
the company, with the several dates at
which each became or ceased to be such
director.
(2) Books kept pursuant to subsection (1)
shall be kept at the head office of the
company; except that where the particulars
mentioned in paragraphs (l)(6),(c),((f) and (e)
are recorded in books kept by a branch office,
or by an agent who has been appointed by
the company for the purpose of recording the
transfer of its shares and who has an
established place of business in Canada, at
which the right of inspection conferred by
section 43 can be exercised, the books
containing the particulars mentioned in
paragraph (l)(e) need not be kept at the head
office of the company.
(3) The company shall keep books of
account adéquate to enable it to prépare the
annual statement required by section 72, and
the books of account respecting liabilities to
the public shall be kept separate and distinct
from other books of account of the company.
R.S., c. 272, s. 35; 1958, c. 42, s. 7.

**36.** (1) No transfer ofstockof the company,
unless made by sale under exécution or under
the decree, order or judgment of a court of
compétent jurisdiction, is, until it has been
recorded in books kept pursuant to section 35,
valid for any purpose whatever except for the
purpose of exhibiting the rights of the parties
thereto as between each other and of rendering
the transférée liable, in the meantime, jointly
and severally with the transferor, to the
Company and its creditors.
(2) A transfer of stock recorded in a book
kept pursuant to section 35, whether kept at
the head office of the company or elsewhere,
is, for ail purposes, a complète and valid
transfer.
(3) A Company may close the books in
which transfers of stock are recorded for any
time or times not exceeding in the whole
thirty days in each year.
(4) The court, as hereinafter defined, of the
province or territory in which the head office
or chief place of business of the company is
situated, has jurisdiction, on the application
of any person interested, to order that any
entry in the books for the registration and
transfer of shares of the capital stock of a
company be struck out or otherwise rectified
on the ground that at the date of the
application the entry as it appears in any
book does not accuratelj' express or define the
existing rights of the person appearing to be
the registered owner of any shares of the
capital stock of the company; and the court,
in deciding the application, may make such
order as to costs as the court may deem
proper.
(5) An application under subsection (4) may
be made by filing with the proper officer of
the court a pétition, an originating summons
or a notice of motion ; and the court may
direct the trial of any issue arising out of the
application.
(6) In this section "court" means in British
Columbia, Alberta, Ontario, Prince Edward
Island, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and
the Suprême Court of those
Provinces respectively ; in Québec, the Superi-
Court ; in Manitoba and Saskatchewan,
Majesty's Court of Queen's Bench for
those Provinces respectively ; in the Yukon
or the Northwest Territories, the
Territorial Court thereof. R.S., c. 272, s. 36;
1958, c. 42, s. 8.

**37.** (1) In this section and sections 38 to
41,
"corporation" inchides an association, part-
nership or other organization;
"non-resident" means
  * (_a_) an individual who is not ordinarily
résident in Canada,
(6) a corporation incorporated, formed or
otherwise organized, elsewhere than in
Canada,
  * (_c_) a corporation that is controlled directlj'
or indirectly by non-residents as defined in
paragraph (a) or (6),
  * (_d_) a trust established by a non-resident as
defined in paragraph (a), (6) or (c), or a
trust in which non-residents as so defined
hâve more than fifty per cent of the
bénéficiai interest, or
  * (_e_) a corporation that is controlled directly
or indirectly by a trust mentioned in
paragraph (d) ;
"résident" means an individual, corporation
or trust that is not a non-resident.
(2) For the purposes of sections 38 to 41, a
shareholder is deemed to be associated with
another shareholder if
  * (_a_) one shareholder is a corporation of
which the other shareholder is an officer or
director ;
(6) one shareholder is a partnership of
which the other shareholder is a partner;
  * (_c_) one shareholder is a corporation that is
controlled directly or indirectly by the other
shareholder ;
  * (_d_) both shareholders are corporations and
one shareholder is controlled directly or
indirectly by the same individual or
corporation that controls directly or
indirectly the other shareholder ;
(é) both shareholders are members of a
voting trust where the trust relates to shares
of the Company ; or
(/) both shareholders are associated within
the meaning of paragraphs (a) to (e) with
the same shareholder.
(3) For the purposes of sections 38 to 41,
vvhere a share of the capital stock of a
Company is held jointly and one or more of
the joint holders thereof is a non-resident, the
share is deemed to be held by a non-resident.
1964-65, c. 40, s. 30.

**38.** (1) The directors of a company shall
refuse to allow in the book or books referred
to in section 35 the entry of a transfer of any
share of the capital stock of the company to
a non-resident
  * (_a_) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
non-residents exceeds twentj'-five per cent
of the total number of issued and outstand-
ing shares of such stock, the entry of the
transfer would increase the number of such
shares held by non-residents;
(6) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
non-residents is twenty-five per cent or less
of the total number of issued and outstand-
ing shares of such stock, the entry of the
transfer would cause the total number of
such shares of stock held by non-residents
to exceed twentj'-five per cent of the total
number of issued and outstanding shares of
such stock ;
  * (_c_) when the total number of shares of the
capital stock of the company held by the
non-resident and by other shareholders
associated with him, if any, exceeds ten per
cent of the total number of issued and
outstanding shares of such stock ; or
  * (_d_) if, when the total number of shares of
the capital stock of the company held by
the non-resident and by other shareholders
associated with him, if any, is ten per cent
or less of the total number of issued and
outstanding shares of such stock, the entry
of the transfer would cause the number of
such shares of stock held by the non-resident
and by other shareholders associated with
him, if any, to exceed ten per cent of the
issued and outstanding shares of such stock.
(2) The directors of a company shall not,
the day of commencement of the first
meeting of the shareholders of the
allot, or allow the allotment of,
shares of the capital stock of the company
to any non-resident in circumstances where,
if the allotment to such non-resident were a
transfer of those shares, the entry thereof in
such book or books would be required, under
subsection (1), to be refused by the directors.
(3) Default in complying with this section
does not affect the validity of a transfer or
allotment of a share of the capital stock of
the Company that has been entered in the
book or books referred to in section 35, but
every director who knowingly authorizes or
permits such default is guilty of an offence
punishable on summary conviction and is
liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand
dollars or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year, or to both. 1964-65, c. 40,
s. 30.

**39.** (1) Where a résident holds shares of
the capital stock of a company in the right
of , or for the use or benefit of , a non-resident,
the résident shall not, either in person or by
proxy, exercise the voting rights pertaining to
those shares.
(2) Subject to subsection 41(3), where any
shares of the capital stock of a company are
held in the name or right of or for the use or
benefit of a non-resident, no person shall,
either as proxy or in person, exercise the
voting rights pertaining to such shares held
by the non-resident or in his right or for his
use or benefit, if the total of such shares so
held, together with such shares held in the
name or right of or for the use or benefit of
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
non-resident, or
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
37(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat-
ed with the non-resident were such persons
and the non-resident themselves sharehold-
ers,
exceed in number ten per cent of the issued
and outstanding shares of such stock.
(3) Every person who knowingly contra-
venes a provision of this section is guilty of
offence punishable on summary conviction
is liable to a fine not exceeding five
dollars or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both.
(4) If any provision of this section is
contravened at a gênerai meeting of the
Company, no proceeding, matter or thing at
that meeting is void by reason only of such
contravention, but any such proceeding,
matter or thing is, at any time within one
year from the day of commencement of the
gênerai meeting at which the contravention
occurred, voidable at the option of the
shareholders by a resolution passed at a
spécial gênerai meeting of the company. 1964-
65, c. 40, s. 30.

**40.** (1) The directors of a company may
make such by-laws as they deem necessary to
carry out the intent of sections 37 to 41 and
in particular, but without restricting the
generality of the foregoing, the directors may
make by-laws
  * (_a_) requiring any person holding any share
of the capital stock of the company to
submit déclarations
  * (_i_) with respect to the ownership of such
share,
  * (_ii_) with respect to the place in which the
shareholder and any person for whose use
or benefit the share is held are ordinarily
résident,
  * (_iii_) whether the shareholder is associated
with any other shareholder, and
  * (_iv_) with respect to such other matters as
the directors may deem relevant for the
purposes of sections 37 to 41 ;
(6) prescribing the times at which and the
manner in which any déclarations required
under paragraph (a) are to be submitted ;
and
  * (_c_) requiring any person desiring to hâve a
transfer of a share to him entered in the
book or books referred to in section 35 to
submit such a déclaration as may be
required pursuant to this section in the case
of a shareholder.
(2) Where pursuant to any by-law made
subsection (1) any déclaration is
to be submitted by any shareholder
or person in respect of the transfer of any
share, the directors may refuse to enter such
transfer in the book or books referred to in
section 35 until the required déclaration has
been completed and submitted. 1964-65, c. 40,
s. 30.

**41.** (1) In this section
"associâtes of the non-resident" means, with
référence to any particular day,
  * (_a_) any shareholders associated with the
non-resident on that day, and
(6) any persons who would, under subsection
37(2), be deemed to be shareholders associat-
ed with the non-resident on that day were
such persons and the non-resident them-
selves shareholders ;
"prescribed day" means the 23rd day of
September 1964 ;
"shares held by or for the non-resident and
associâtes" means, with référence to any
particular day, the aggregate number of
shares held on that day in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of the non-
resident and associâtes of the non-resident
on that day.
(2) Where more than fifty per cent of the
issued and outstanding shares of the capital
stock of a Company are held in the name or
right of or for the use or benefit of one non-
resident
  * (_a_) at the commencement of the prescribed
day, in the case of a Company incorporated
before that day, or
(6) on the day of commencement of the
first gênerai meeting of the shareholders of
the Company, in the case of a company
incorporated on or after the prescribed day,
sections 38 to 40 do not apply to or in respect
of that Company ; but if at any time thereafter
there is no one non-resident in whose name
or right or for whose use or benefit more than
fifty per cent of the issued and outstanding
shares of the capital stock of the company are
held, those sections apply from and after that
time to and in respect of that company.
(3) Where at the commencement of the
of such stock at that time issued and
outstanding, the voting rights pertaining to
the shares held in the name or right of or for
the use or benefit of the non-resident may
notwithstanding subsection 39(2) be exercised,
in person or by proxy, so long as the
percentage of such shares held by or for the
non-resident and associâtes does not exceed
either the percentage of such shares held by
or for the non-resident and associâtes at the
commencement of the prescribed day or the
smallest percentage of such shares held by or
for the non-resident and associâtes on any
subséquent day; but this subsection shall not
be construed to prohibit the exercise of voting
rights in circumstances where section 39 does
not apply.
(4) Where after the 17th day of March 1965
a corporation that was at any time a résident
becomes a non-resident, any shares of the
capital stock of the company acquired by the
corporation while it was a résident and held
b}' it while it is a non-resident shall be
deemed, for the purposes of sections 38 and
39, to be shares held by a résident for the use
or benefit of a non-resident.
(5) Where on or after the prescribed day
the par value of shares of the capital stock of
the Company is reduced, the directors of the
company may, notwithstanding subsection
38(2), allot shares of the capital stock of the
company of the reduced par value to a non-
resident who is a shareholder in exchange for
shares of such stock of the unreduced par
value, but not so as thereby to effect an
increase in the aggregate par value of the
shares of such stock held by the non-resident.
(6) The directors of a company may,
notwithstanding section 38, allow in the book
or books referred to in section 35 the entry of
a transfer of any share of the capital stock of
the company from a résident to a non-resident
it is shown to the directors on évidence
to them that the share was at the
of the non-resident.
(7) If at anj' time on or after the prescribed
day and before the 18th day of March 1965
the directors of a company allow, in the book
or books referred to in section 35, the entry of
any transfer or allotment of any share of the
capital stock of the company to a non-resident
that they would hâve been required to refuse
or prevent under section 38 had that section
come into force on the prescribed day, no
person shall, as proxy or in person, exercise
the voting rights pertaining to such share so
long as the share is held in the name or right
of or for the use or benefit of any non-
resident.
(8) Subsections 39(3) and (4) apply to the
contravention of any provision of subsection
(7) of this section.
(9) In determining for the purposes of
sections 37 to 41 whether a person is a résident
or non-resident, by whom a corporation is
controlled, or any othercircumstances relevant
to the performance of their duties under those
sections, the directors of the company may
rely upon any statements made in any
déclarations submitted under section 40 or
rely upon their own knowledge of the
circumstances ; and the directors are not liable
in any action for anything done or omitted
by them in good faith as a resuit of any
conclusions made by them on the basis of any
such statements or knowledge. 1964-65, c. 40,
s. 30.

**42.** (1) Where a transmission of shares or
securities of the company takes place by
reason of the death of any person,
  * (_a_) the production to an officer of the
company, or to any other person authorized
by the directors of the company for the
purpose, of the document of transmission,
and
  * (_b_) the deposit with such officer or other
person of
  * (_i_) the document of transmission, or a
copy thereof, and
  * (_ii_) a déclaration in writing showing the
nature of the transmission, signed bysuch
one or more of the persons claiming by
virtue thereof as the company may
require,
is sufficient justification and authority to the
directors for paying the amount or value of
any dividend, obligation or share, or transfer-
ring or consenting to the transfer of any
obligation or share, in pursuance of and in
conformity with the document of transmission.
(2) In this section "document of transmis-
sion" means
  * (_a_) a document purporting to be granted or
issued by any court or compétent authority
in Canada or elsewhere and being
  * (_i_) letters probate of the will of the
deceased person,
  * (_ii_) letters of administration of the estate
of the deceased person, or
  * (_iii_) any other judicial or officiai instru-
ment under which the title, whether
bénéficiai or as trustée, or the adminis-
tration or control of the personal estate
of the deceased person is claimed to vest
or to be confirmed ;
(6) a copy of any document described in
paragraph (a), or an extract therefrom,
purporting to be authenticated under the
seal of the court or compétent authority;
or
  * (_c_) a notarial copy of the will of the
deceased person, if the will is in notarial or
authentic form according to the law of the
Province of Québec. R.S., c. 272, s. 37.

**43.** The books mentioned in subsection
35(1) shall, during reasonable business hours
of every business day of the compan}', be kept
open for the inspection of shareholders and
creditors of the company and their personal
représentatives and of any judgment creditor
of a shareholder, any of whom may make
extracts therefrom, at the place or places
where they are respectively kept as authorized
by section 35. R.S. c. 272, s. 38.

## SHAREHOLDERS' LIABILITY

**44.** (j) Every shareholder is, until the
amount of his capital stock has been
up, individually liable to the company
to an amount equal to that not paid up
thereon.
(2) The shareholders of the company shall
not, as such, be held responsible for any act,
defauh or liability whatever of the company,
or for any engagement, claim, payment, loss,
injury, transaction, matter or thing whatever
relating to or connected with the company,
be3'ond the amount unpaid of their respective
shares in the capital stock thereof.
(3) Nq person holding stock in the company
as an executor, administrator, tutor, curator,
guardian or trustée is personally subject to
liabilitj' as a shareholder; but the estate and
funds in the hands of such person are liable
in like manner and to the same extent as the
testator, or intestate if living, or the minor,
ward or other person interested in such trust
fund if compétent to act and holding such
stock in his own name, would be liable.
(4) Nq person holding stock in the company
as collatéral security is personally subject to
liability as a shareholder; but the person
pledging such stock shall be considered as
holding the same and is liable as a shareholder
accordingly. R.S., c. 272, ss. 39, 40, 41, 42.

## MEETINGS AND VOTING

**45.** (1) An annual gênerai meeting of the
company shall be held at its head office once
in each year after the organization of the
company and the commencement of business,
and at such meeting a statement of the affairs
of the company shall be submitted.
(2) Spécial gênerai meetings may be called
by any three of the directors, or the directors
shall, upon a written réquisition signed by
any twenty-five shareholders specifying in
the réquisition the object of the meeting, call
such spécial gênerai meeting and notice
thereof shall be given as provided in the by-
laws of the company.
(3) The directors shall, at least ten days
the date on which the annual gênerai
is to be held, forward through the
mail a copy of the statement called for by
subsection (1) to each shareholder at his latest
known address as shown by the records of the
Company, together with a notice of the time
and place at which the meeting will be held
and the names of the auditors eligible for
appointment at the meeting under the
provisions hereinafter set out.
(4) A certificate forming part of the state-
ment shall be appended thereto and shall be
signed by the manager, gênerai manager or
other chief executive officer of the company
and not iess than two of the directors, and
shall State that to the best of their knowledge
and belief the statement is correct and shows
truly and clearly the financial condition of
the company's affairs. R.S., c. 272, s. 43.

**46.** (1) No shareholder who is in arrears in
respect of any call is entitled to vote at any
meeting of the company.
(2) In the absence of other provisions in
that behalf in the by-laws of the company,
notice of the time and place for holding
spécial gênerai meetings of the company shall
be given at least ten days prior thereto, in
some newspaper published at the place in
which the head office of the company is
situated, or if there is no newspaper there
published, then in the newspaper published
nearest thereto, and the notice shall specify
the objects of the meeting. R.S., c. 272,
ss. 44, 45.

**47.** (1) Subject to this Act and the by-laws
made hereunder every shareholder is entitled
to as many votes at ail gênerai meetings of
the company as he owns of shares in the
company, and may vote by proxy, but the
holder of the proxy must himself be a
shareholder and entitled to vote.
(2) In ail cases where the votes of the
shareholders are taken the voting shall be by
ballot.
(3) Every executor, administrator, tutor,
curator, guardian or trustée may represent
the stock in his possession in his fiduciary
at ail meetings of the Company, and
vote as a shareholder.
(4) Every person who pledges his stock may,
notwithstanding the pledge, represent that
stock at ail such meetings, and vote as a
shareholder. R.S., e. 272, ss. 46, 47.

## AUDIT

**48.** (1) The shareholders shall at each
annual gênerai meeting appoint an auditor
or auditors to hold office until the next
annual gênerai meeting.
(2) If an appointment of auditors is not
made at an annual gênerai meeting, the
Minister may, on the application of any
shareholder, appoint an auditor of the
Company for the current year and fix the
rémunération to be paid to him by the
Company for his services.
(3) A director or officer of the company is
not capable of being appointed auditor of the
Company.
(4) A person other than a retiring auditor
is not capable of being appointed auditor at
an annual gênerai meeting, unless notice of
an intention to nominate that person to the
office of auditor has been given by a
shareholder to the company not less than
fifteen days before the annual gênerai
meeting, and the company shall send a copy
of any such notice to the retiring auditor and
shall give notice thereof to the shareholders
as provided in this Act.
(5) The first auditors of the company may
be appointed by the directors before the first
annual gênerai meeting, but shall only hold
office by virtue of that appointment until the
time of the meeting.
(6) The directors may fill any casual
vacancy in the office of auditor, but while
any such vacancy continues the surviving or
continuing auditor, if any, may act.
(7) xhe rémunération of the auditors of the
company shall be fixed by the shareholders
at each annual gênerai meeting, except that
the rémunération of any auditors appointed
the first annual gênerai meeting or to
any casual vacancj' may be fixed by the
R.S., c. 272, s. 48.

**49.** (1) Every auditor of a Company bas a
right of access at ail times to the books and
accounts and vouchers of the company, and
is entitled to require from the directors and
officers of the company such information and
explanation as may be necessary for the
performance of the duties of an auditor.
(2) The auditors shall make a report
  * (_a_) to the shareholders on the statement
submitted to them as required by section
45 ; and
(6) to the Superintendent on the annual
statement to be deposited in the Department
in pursuance of this Act.
(3) The report in each case shall state
whether the auditors hâve obtained ail the
information and explanations they bave
required and shall state in addition,
  * (_a_) in the report to the shareholders,
whether in the opinion of the auditors the
statement exhibits a true and correct view
of the state of the company's affairs as at
the date of the statement and of the results
of the opérations of the company during
the year that ended on that date according
to the best of their information and the
explanations given to them and as shown
by the books of the company ; and
(6) in the report to the Superintendent,
whether in the opinion of the auditors the
statement exhibits a true and correct view
of the assets and liabilities of the company
as at the date of the statement, the income
and expenditure of the company during the
year that ended on that date and the results
of the opérations of the company for that
year according to the best of their informa-
tion and the explanations given to them
and as shown by the books of the company.
(4) A copy of the auditors' report to the
shareholders shall be attached to and sent to
each shareholder with the statement to be
forwarded to him through the mail under the
provisions of this Act. R.S., c. 272, s. 49; 1958,
c. 42, s. 9; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 31.
CONTRACTS, ETC.

**50.** (1) Every contract.agreement.engage-
^Qjr^^ Qj. bargain made, and every bill of
exchange drawn, accepted or endorsed, and
every promissory note and chèque made,
drawn or endorsed on behalf of the company,
by any agent, officer or servant of the
Company, in gênerai accordance with his
powers as such, is binding upon the company.
(2) In no case is it necessary to hâve the
seal of the company affixed to any such
contract, agreement, engagement, bargain,
bill of exchange, promissory note or chèque,
or to prove that the same was made, drawn,
accepted or endorsed, as the case may be, in
pursuance of any by-law or spécial vote or
order.
(3) The person so acting as agent, officer or
servant of the company is not thereby
subjected individually to any liability what-
ever to any third person therefor. R.S., c. .272, '^'^'^
s. 50.

## TRUSTS
5 1. (1) Except in the capacity of trustée
the company is not bound to see to the
exécution of any trust whether express,
implied or constructive, in respect of any
share of its capital stock.
(2) The receipt of the shareholder in whose
name any share stands in the books of the
company is a valid and binding discharge to
the company for any dividend or money
payable in respect of that share, whether or
not notice of such trust has been given to the
company.
(3) The company is not bound to see to the
application of the money paid upon such
receipt. R.S., c. 272, s. 51.
LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS

**52.** Where the directors of the company
déclare and pay any dividend that impairs or
diminishes the paid-up capital of the compa-
ny, the directors who knowingly ornegligently
concur in the déclaration or making payable
of that dividend whereby the paid-up capital
of the company is impaired or diminished are
that dividend as a debt due by them to the
Company. R.S., c. 272, s. 52.

**53.** Whenever entry is made in the compa-
ny's books of any transfer of stock not fully
paid up, to a person who is not apparently of
sufficient means to fully pay up such shares,
the directors présent who consent to the
transfer and every director présent who does
not record his vote in opposition thereto, are
jointly and severallj' liable to the company
in the same manner and to the same extent
as the transferring shareholder but for that
entry would hâve been liable. R.S., c. 272,
s. 53.

**54.** Where any loan is made bj' the
company to any shareholder or director in
violation of this Act, ail directors and officers
of the company who made the loan or assented
thereto are jointly and severally liable to the
company for the amount thereof with lawful
interest. R.S., c. 272, s. 54.

**55.** (1) The directors of the company are
jointly and severally liable to the clerks and
servants thereof for ail debts, not exceeding
three months salary or wages, due for services
performed for the company while they are
such directors respectively.
(2) No director is liable to an action therefor
unless the company is sued therefor within
one year after the debt became due, nor unless
the director is sued therefor within one year
from the time when he ceased to be a director,
nor unless an exécution against the company
at the suit of such of ficer or servant is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part.
(3) The amount unsatisfied on such exécu-
tion shall be the amount recoverable with
costs from the directors. R.S., c. 272, s. 55.

## PROCEDUKE

**56.** The company may enforce payment of
calls and interest thereon by action in any
of compétent jurisdiction. R.S., c. 272,

**56.**

**57.** In such action it is not necessary to set
forth the spécial matter, but it is sufficient to
déclare that the défendant is a holder of one
share or more, stating the number of shares,
and is indebted to the company in the sum of
money to which the calls in arrears amount,
in respect of one call or more, stating the
number of calls and the amount of each call,
whereby an action has accrued to the company
under this Act. R.S., c. 272, s. 57.

**58.** (1) Service of any process or notice
upon the company may be made by leaving
a copy thereof at the head office of the
company, with any adult person in charge
thereof, or elsewhere with the président or
secretary of the company.
(2) Where the company has no known
office, and has no known président or
secretary, the court may order such publication
as it deems requisite to be made in the
premises, for at least one month, in at least
one newspaper.
(3) Such publication shall be deemed to be
due service upon the company. R.S., c. 272, s.

**58.**

**59.** Any description of action may be
prosecuted and maintained between the
company and any shareholder thereof. R.S.,
c. 272, s. 59.

## EVIDENCE

**60.** A copy of any by-law of the company,
under its seal, and purporting to be signed by
any officer of the company, shall be received
in évidence as prima fade proof of such by-
law in ail courts in Canada. R.S., c. 272, s. 60.

**61.** AU books required by this Act to be
kept by the secretary or by any other officer
of the company charged with that duty are,
in any suit or proceeding against the company
or against any shareholder, évidence of ail
facts purporting to be therein stated. R.S., c.
272, s. 61.

**62.** In any action by any company to
payment of any call or interest
thereon, a certificate under the seal of the
Company and purporting to be signed by any
of the company to the effect that the
défendant is a shareholder, that the call or
calls hâve been made to enforce payment of
which or of any interest thereon such action
has been brought, and that so much is due by
him and unpaid thereon, shall be received in
évidence in ail courts as prima facie proof of
the facts purporting to be stated therein. R.S.,
c. 272, s. 62.

## POWERS OF THE COMPANY

**53.** The company may
  * (_a_) receive money in trust for the purposes
herein specified, and invest and accumulate
it at such lawf ul rates of interest as may be
obtained therefor;
(6) accept and exécute ail such trusts of
every description and nature as are entrust-
ed to it by any government or person, or
committed or transferred to it by the order
of a judge or by the order, judgment or
decree of any court in Canada or elsewhere ;
  * (_c_) exécute the offices of executor, adminis-
trator, trustée, accountant, arbitrator,
adjuster, auditor, receive?, assignée, liquida-
tor, sequestrator, officiai guardian, guard-
ian, tutor or curator, judicial adviser or
committee of a lunatic, and perform the
duties of such offices or trusts as fully and
completely as any person so appointed
could do ;
  * (_d_) receive and manage any sinking fund
on such terms as may be agreed upon ; take,
hold and accept by grant, assignment,
transfer, deed, will, devise, bequest, or
otherwise, any real or personal estate upon
any lawful trusts, and perform and exécute
them according to the terms and for the
purposes declared, established or agreed
upon; accept from, and exécute trusts for
married women in respect of their separate
property, real or personal, and act as agent
for them in the management of such
separate property ;
act as agent for countersigning, register-
ing or otherwise ascertaining and certifying
to the genuineness of any issue of stock,
bonds, debentures or other securities for
money of any government, municipal or
other corporate body duly authorized to
issue and raake the said issue, and hold the
said securities as agent or trustée; and act
generally as fiscal or other agent for any
such government or corporate body ;
  * (_g_) act as agent or attorney for winding up
estâtes, receiving or collecting any principal,
interest, rents, coupons, mortgages, debts,
debentures or other securities or évidences
of debt or demands of any nature, and in
the sale or purchase of any real or personal
property, and generally act in ail matters
in the nature of a trust or gênerai agency ;
  * (_h_) be the custodian, on such terms as are
agreed upon, of any jewellery, plate and
other valuable property, and of papers,
documents, deeds, wills, debentures and
other évidence of title and indebtedness;
(î) act as investing and managing agent of
estâtes and properties for and on behalf of
executors, administrators and trustées or
other persons ;
0) receive and collect such rémunération
for its services as is agreed upon or as fixed
or allowed from time to time by law, and
ail usual and customary charges, costs and
expenses ;
  * (_k_) receive money on deposit in trust and
allow interest thereon from the time of
deposit at such rate as may be agreed upon
and advance moneys to protect any estate,
trust or property entrusted to it as aforesaid,
and charge lawful interest upon an^' such
advances, but nothing herein shall be held
either to restrict or to extend the powers of
the Company as trustée or agent under the
terms of any trust or agency that may be
conferred upon it ;
(0 take securities of such nature as are
deemed expédient for any moneys owing to
the Company ; and
  * (_m_) hold real estate that, having been
mortgaged or hypothecated to it, is acquired
by it for the protection of its investments,
or is acquired by it in satisfaction in whole
or in part of anj' debt due to itself, and
from time to time sell, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose thereof ; but no real estate
so acquired by the company, other than as
trustée or in an officiai capacity, shall be
held by the company for a longer period
than twelve years after the acquisition
thereof, unless such period is extended by
order of the Governor in Council, but shall,
at or before the expiration of such period
or extended period, be absolutely sold or
disposed of, so that the company no longer
retains any interest therein except by way
of security. R.S., c. 272, s. 63.

## INVESTMENTS

**64.** (1) Subject to any restrictions con-
tained in the instrument creating the trust,
the company may
  * (_a_) invest unguaranteed trust money in
  * (_i_) debentures, bonds, stocks or other
securities
(A) of or guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of Canada,
(B) of or guaranteed by the goverrunent
of a province,
(C) of or guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom or of any
of Her Majesty's self-governing domin-
ions or dependencies,
(D) of or guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of the United States or of a state
thereof,
(E) of or guaranteed by the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and
Development established by the Agree-
ment for an International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
approved by the Bretton Woods Agree-
ments Ad,
(F) of a municipal or school corporation
in Canada,
(G) guaranteed by a municipal corpo-
ration in Canada, or
(H) secured by rates or taxes levied
under the authority of laws of a
province on property situated in the
province and collectable by the
municipalities in which the property is
situated,
that are not in default in respect of either
principal or interest,
  * (_ii_) mortgages or hypothecs on freehold
real estate in Canada and agreements for
sale of such real estate, but the amount
paid for the mortgage, hypothec or
agreement for sale, together with the
amount of indebtedness under any mort-
gage, hypothec or agreement for sale
ranking equally with or superior to the
mortgage, hypothec or agreement for sale
in which the investment is made, shall
not exceed three-quarters of the value of
the real estate,
  * (_iii_) securities in which trustées are
authorized by the laws of the province in
which the trust is being administered to
invest trust moneys, or
  * (_iv_) such other securities as are authorized
by the instrument creating the trust ;
(6) invest guaranteed trust money in
  * (_i_) securities mentioned in subparagraphs
(a)(i), (ii) and (iii),
  * (_ii_) the securities mentioned in para-
graphs 68(1)(6) to 0), if the security is also
authorized by the instrument creating the
trust, but the amount invested under this
subparagraph in common shares shall not
exceed twenty-five per cent of the
guaranteed trust money held by the
Company, or
  * (_iii_) freehold real estate in Canada for
the production of income in accordance
with paragraph 68(1)(0, but the amount
invested under this subparagraph shall
not exceed five per cent of the total
guaranteed trust money held by the
Company or twenty-five per cent of the
company's unimpaired paid-up capital
and reserve, and the amount invested in
any one parcel of real estate under this
subparagraph, when added to the amount
invested in such parcel under paragraph
(B) the guaranteed trust monej' held
by the company ;
  * (_c_) lend unguaranteed trust money on the
security of
  * (_i_) securities mentioned in subparagraphs
(a)(i), (ii) and (iii),
  * (_ii_) such other securities as are authorized
by the instrument creating the trust, or
  * (_iii_) freehold real estate in Canada, but
the amount of the loan, together with the
amount of indebtedness under any mort-
gage or hypothec on the real estate
ranking equally with or superior to the
loan, shall not exceed three-quarters of
the value of the real estate; and
  * (_d_) lend guaranteed trust money on the
security of
  * (_i_) securities mentioned in subparagraphs
(a)(i), (il) and (iii),
  * (_ii_) securities mentioned in any of para-
graphs 68(1)(6) to 0) or in paragraph
68(3)(6), if such securities are also author-
ized by the instrument creating the trust,
subject to ail the limitations and restric-
tions imposed bj' section 68 other than by
subsection (10) thereof , or
  * (_iii_) freehold real estate in Canada, but
the amount of the loan, together with the
amount of indebtedness under any mort-
gage or hypothec on the real estate
ranking equally with or superior to the
loan, shall not exceed three-quarters of
the value of the real estate.
(2) The company may accept personal
property or personal covenants as additional
or collatéral security for any loan made under
subsection (1) or for any debt due to the
company.
(3) The company shall not lend trust funds
to a director or officer thereof, to the wife or
a child of a director or officer or to a
corporation more than one-half of the capital
stock of which is owned bj' a director or
officer, the wife or a child of a director or
officer or by a combination of such persons.
(4) The company may manage, sell or
dispose of investments as the terms of the
trust pursuant to which they were made
or, in the absence of suchrequirement,
the directors, subject to the provisions of
this Act, may see fit.
(5) Where the terms of a trust under which
money is deposited with the company on
which interest is payable give to the company
a gênerai discrétion in the investment or
lending thereof, the discrétion shall be
exercised only to invest such money in
accordance with subparagraphs (l)(a)(i),(ii)
and (iii) or to lend such money in accordance
with subparagraphs (l)(c)(i) and (iii).
(6) The company shall not lend trust funds
on which interest is payable on the security
of vacant land not used for agricultural
purposes. R.S., c. 272, s. 64; 1952-53, c. 10, s.
3; 1960-61, c. 55, s. 1 ; 1964-65, c. 40, s. 32.

**65.** Nothing in section 64 prevents the
company from holding securities of any other
kind that form or are part of any trust estate
that comes into its hands ; and it may hold
such securities subject to the trusts and légal
obligations attached thereto ; but in the case
of the realization of any portion thereof the
proceeds shall be invested as herein directed,
unless the will, deed or instrument creating
the trust provides otherwise. R.S., c. 272, s. 65.

**65.** (j) "Yhe moneys and securities given,
g^çqyjj.ç(j qj. j^gj^j |jj trust by the company,
shall always be kept distinct from those of
the company, and in separate accounts, and
so marked for each particular trust as always
to be distinguished from any other in the
registers and other books of account to be
kept by the company, so that at no time shall
trust moneys form part of or be mixed with
the gênerai assets of the company.
(2) The company shall, in the receipt of
^^^^ ^^'^ ^^ the overseeing and management
of trusts and other property, keep distinct
records and accounts of ail opérations con-
nected therewith.
(3) j^ ^^g management of the money and

## 1111 1
property held by the company as trustée, or
in any other officiai capacity, under the
conferred by this Act, the company
unless the authority making the appoint-
otherwise directs, invest the trust money
in the manner provided by section 64 in one
or more gênerai or common trust funds of the
Company.
(4) The total amount of money of any one
trust invested in one or more gênerai or
common trust funds of the company shall
not, at any time, exceed the amount that a
trust company may invest from such trust in
gênerai or common trust funds under the laws
of the province in which the trust is being
administered.
(5) Where it is provided by the agreement
under which guaranteed trust monej's are
received that spécifie securities shall be
allocated in respect thereof, spécifie securities
shall be ear-marked and set aside in respect
thereof; otherwise, it is not necessary for the
company to allocate spécifie securities to
particular deposits df guaranteed trust moneys
but securities shall be ear-marked and set
aside in respect of ail such moneys equal to
the aggregate amount thereof as required by
subsection (1). R.S., c. 272, s. 66.

**67.** AU deposits of money received by the
companj' in trust on which interest is allowed
after the Ist day of January 1923 shall be and
be deemed to hâve been received on the
condition that the company bas the right to
require at least thirty days notice for the
withdrawal of the amount so deposited or any
portion thereof. R.S., c. 272, s. 67.

**68.** (1) The company may invest its own
funds in
  * (_a_) debentures, bonds, stocks or other securi-
ties
  * (_i_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of Canada,
  * (_ii_) of or guaranteed by the government
of a province,
  * (_iii_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of the United Kingdom or of any of Her
Majesty's self-governing dominions or
dependencies,
  * (_iv_) of or guaranteed by the Government
of the United States or of a state thereof,
  * (_v_) of or guaranteed by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment established by the Agreement for
an International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development approved by the Bretton
Woods Agreements Act,
  * (_vi_) of a municipal or school corporation
in Canada,
  * (_vii_) guaranteed by a municipal corpora-
tion in Canada, or
  * (_viii_) secured by rates or taxes levied
under the authority of laws of a province
on property situated in the province and
cnllectable by the municipalities in which
tne property is situated;
(6) bonds of a corporation incorporated in
Canada that are secured by a mortgage or
hypothec to a trustée upon
  * (_i_) real estate,
  * (_ii_) plant or equipment of the corporation
used in the transaction of ils business, or
  * (_iii_) bonds, debentures or other évidences
of indebtedness or stocks owned by the
corporation of a class or classes authorized
by this section as investments for a trust
Company,
but the inclusion as additionai security in
the mortgage or hypothec of assets not of a
class authorized by this Act as investments
for a trust company does not render
inéligible such bonds as an investment ;
  * (_c_) bonds or debentures of a corporation
incorporated in Canada that are secured by
the assignment to a trust corporation in
Canada of annual payments that the
Government of Canada has agreed to make,
if each paj'ment is sufficient to meet the
interest falling due on bonds or debentures
outstanding and the principal amount of
the said bonds or debentures maturing for
payment in the year in which it is to be
made;
  * (_d_) bonds or debentures issued by a chari-
table, educational or philanthropie institu-
tion incorporated in Canada in respect of
which bonds and debentures annual subsi-
dies equal to the interest and sinking fund
accruing on such bonds or debentures are,
by virtue of an Act of a province of Canada
passed before the Ist day of July 1947,
payable, by or under the authority of the
of indebtedness of a corporation
incorporated in Canada that are fully
secured b}- st-atutory charge upon real estate
or upon plant and equipment of the
corporation used in the transaction of its
business if interest in full has been paid
regularly for a period of at least ten years
immediately preceding the date of invest-
ment in the debentures, debenture stock or
other évidences of indebtedness upon securi-
ties of the corporation of that class then
outstanding ; or the bonds or other évidences
of indebtedness of a corporation incorporat-
ed in Canada that are fully secured by
mortgage or hj'pothec to a trustée of
securities of the class hereinbefore first
mentioned in this paragraph ;
if) obligations or certificates issued by a
trustée to finance the purchase of transpor-
tation equipment for a corporation incor-
porated in Canada to be used on railways
or public highways, if the obligations or
certificates are fully secured by
  * (_i_) an assignment of the transportation
equipment to, or the ownership thereof
by the trustée, and
  * (_ii_) a lease or conditional sale thereof by
the trustée to the corporation ;
  * (_g_) debentures or other évidences of indebt-
edness of a corporation incorporated in
Canada that has paid regular dividends on
its preferred or common stock for a term of
at least five years immediately preceding
the date of investment in such debentures
or other évidences of indebtedness ;
  * (_h_) preferred stocks of a corporation incor-
porated in Canada that has paid regular
dividends upon such stocks, or upon its
other preferred stocks ranking equally
therewith or common stocks for not less
than five years preceding the purchase of
such preferred stocks ;
  * (_i_) stocks of a corporation incorporated in
Canada that are guaranteed by a corpora-
tion that has paid regular dividends upon
its preferred or common stocks for not less
than five years preceding the purchase of
such guaranteed stocks, if the amount of
stocks so guaranteed is not in excess of fifty
per cent of the amount of the preferred or
common stocks, as the case may be, of the
guaranteeing corporation ;
0) fulh' paid common shares of a corpora-
tion incorporated in Canada that during a
of five years that ended less than
year before the date of investment has
  * (_i_) paid a dividend in each such year
upon its common shares, or
  * (_ii_) had earnings in each such year
available for the payment of a dividend
upon its common shares,
of at least four per cent of the average
value at which the shares were carried in
the capital stock account of the corporation
during the year in which the dividend was
paid or in which the corporation had
earnings available for the payment of
dividende as the case may be, but not more
than thirty per cent of the common shares
and not more than thirty per cent of the
total issue of the shares of any corporation
shall be purchased by the company and the
Company shall not invest in its own stock
or in the stock of any other trust company ;
  * (_k_) mortgages or hypothecs on freehold real
estate in Canada and agreements for sale
of such real estate, but the amount paid for
the mortgage, hypothec or agreement for
sale, together with the amount of indebted-
ness under any mortgage, hypothec or
agreement for sale ranking equally with or
superior to the mortgage, hypothec or
agreement for sale in which the investment
is made, shall not exceed three-quarters of
the value of the real estate ; or
(0 freehold real estate in Canada for the
production of income, either alone or jointly
with any other trust company, loan compa-
ny or insurance company incorporated in
Canada, if
  * (_i_) a lease of the real estate is made to,
or guaranteed by, a corporation that has
paid
(A) a dividend in each of the five years
immediately preceding the date of
investment at least equal to the speci-
f ied annual rate upon ail of its preferred
shares, or
(B) a dividend in each year of a period
of five years ended less than one year
before the date of investment upon its
common shares of at least four per cent
of the average value at which the shares
were carried in the capital stock account
of the corporation during the year in
which the dividend was paid,
the amount invested by the company in
the real estate within the period of the
lease, but not exceeding thirty years from
the date of investment, and
  * (_iii_) the amount invested in any one
parcel of real estate under this paragraph
when added to the amount invested in
such parcel under subparagraph 64(1)
(6)(iii) does not exceed one per cent of
the aggregate of
(A) the book value of the company's
own funds, and
(B) the guaranteed trust money held
by the company ;
and the company may hold, maintain,
improve, lease, sell or otherwise deal with
or dispose of the real estate.
(2) The company may acquire and hold
real and immovable property for its actual
use and occupation and the management of
its business and may sell or dispose of the
same but not more than thirty-five per cent
of the company's unimpaired paid-up capital
and reserve may be laid out or expended for
this purpose.
(3) The company may lend its own funds
on the security of
  * (_a_) bonds, debentures, stocks or other securi-
ties in which a company may invest its
funds under the provisions of paragraphs
(l)(a)and(6);
  * (_b_) bonds, debentures, notes, stocks or other
securities of a corporation incorporated in
Canada other than those mentioned in
paragraph (1)(6), but the market value of
the securities on which the loan is made
shall exceed the amount of the loan by at
least one-third of the market value; and
the amount loaned on the security of the
stocks of a corporation incorporated in
Canada shall not exceed twenty per cent of
the market value of the total stocks of the
corporation ;
  * (_c_) guaranteed investment certificates ; or
  * (_d_) freehold real estate in Canada, but the
amount of the loan, together with the
amount of indebtedness under any mortgage
or hypothec on the real estate ranking
equally with or superior to the loan, shall
not exceed three-quarters of the value of
the real estate, subject to the exception that
the Company may accept as part payment
for real estate sold by it a mortgage or
hypothec for more than three-quarters of
the sale price of the real estate.
(4) The Treasury Board may authorize the
acceptance ,1 by a Company of r l bonds, j stocks ^ 1 or
debentures not fulf illing the foregoing require-
ments of this section
  * (_a_) in payment or part payment for securi-
ties sold by the company, or
(6) obtained under a bona fide arrangement
for the reorganization of a corporation
whose securities were previously owned by
the company, or for the amalgamation with
another corporation of the corporation
whose securities were so owned ;
but the bonds, stocks or debentures whose
acceptance is so authorized shall be absolutely
sold and disposed of within five years after
the acquisition thereof , or within such further
time as the Governor in Council shall on
report of the Minister fix and détermine,
unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the Minister that the bonds, stocks or
debentures whose acceptance is so authorized
are not inferior in status or value to the
securities for which they hâve been substituted.
(5) For the purpose of determining the
eligibility as investments under this section
of the preferred or common stocks of a
corporation, the capital account of which has
been voluntarily reorganized without impair-
of the status or value of its outstanding
securities, including the capital stock, divi-
dends paid on the preferred and common
of the corporation before such reorgan-
ization may be counted as dividends paid on
such stocks, respectively, of the corporation.
(6) The compan}' may make investments
and loans of its own funds otherwise than
authorized by this section, but
  * (_a_) the total book value of the investments
and loans made under the authority of this
subsection and held by the company,
excluding those that are or at any time
since acquisition hâve been eligible apart
from this subsection, shall not exceed fifteen
per cent of the company's unimpaired paid-
up capital and reser^-e ; and
(6) this subsection does not
  * (_i_) enlarge the authoritj' conferred by
subsections (1) to (3)to invest inmortgages
or hypothecs on real estate, to invest in
real estate or to lend on the security of
real estate, or
  * (_ii_) affect the opération of paragraph
(1)0) with référence to the maximum
proportion of the common stocks and
total stocks of any corporation that ma}'
be purchased, or with référence to the
prohibition against investing in the
company's own stock or in the stock of
any other trust company.
(7) The company shall not lend its own
funds to a director or officer thereof, to the
wife or a child of a director or officer or to a
corporation more than one-half of the capital
stock of which is owned by a director or
officer, the wife or a child of a director or
officer or by a combination of such persons.
(8) The company shall not invest its own
funds in, or lend its own funds on the security
of, bonds, debentures or other évidences of
indebtedness on which payment of principal
or interest is in default.
(9) Notwithstanding anything in this sec-
the amount of the company's investment
loans under the authority of this section in
upon the security of the debentures, bonds,
and other securities of a company
incorporated as aforesaid shall not exceed in
the aggregate twenty per cent of the market
value of the debentures, bonds, stock and
other securities issued by such company.
(10) The book value of the investments of
the company's own funds in common shares
of capital stock of corporations shall not
exceed in the aggregate twenty-five per cent
of the company's unimpaired paid-up capital
and reserve.
(11) The total book value of the investments
of the company's own funds in real estate for
the production of income pursuant to para-
graph (1)(0 shall not exceed five per cent of
the book value of the company's own funds.
(12) The company shall not lend its funds
on the security of vacant land not used for
agricultural purposes.
(13) The company may take personal or
other security as collatéral for an advance or
for any debt due to the company.
(14) Nothing in this section prohibits the
çQjjjpg^jjy from making from its own funds
reasonable advances to enable it to obtain
possession of or to protect property entrusted
to it for administration. R.S., c. 272, s. 68;
1952-53, c. 10, s. 4; 1960-61, c. 55, s. 2; 1964-65,
c. 40, s. 33.

**69.** In case of the appointment of the
company to any trust or office by any court
in Canada, or any judge, officer or person
having lawful authority in that behalf, such
court, judge, officer or person may require the
company to render an account of its adminis-
tration of the particular trust or office to
which it has been appointed, and may appoint
a suitable person to investigate the manage-
ment of the particular trust by the company,
and as to the security afforded to those by or
for whom its engagements are held, and such
person shall report thereon to such court,
judge, officer or person, and the expenses of
the investigation shall be borne as ordered by
the court, judge or officer thereof . R.S., c. 272,
s. 69.

## BORROWING POWER

**70.** (1) For the purpose of carrying out the
objects and powers of the company as
authorized by section 63 or such of them as
the company may be authorized to exercise,
and for no other purpose, the directors of the
company may, if authorized by by-law,
sanctioned by a vote of not less than two-
thirds of the amount of the paid-up capital
stock of the company, represented at a gênerai
meeting duly called for that purpose,
  * (_a_) borrow money upon the crédit of the
company, and
(6) hypothecate, mortgage or pledge the
real or personal property of the company,
or both, to secure any money borrowed
under the authority of this section.
(2) The company shall not borrow money
by the issue of bonds or debentures.
(3) The aggregate of the sums of money
borrowed and the sums of money entrusted to
the company for investment the repayment
of which is guaranteed by the company shall
not at any time, except as authorized by
subsection (4), exceed twelve and one-half
times the excess of the assets of the company
over its liabilities.
(4) A company may, by by-law passed by
the directors and approved by at least a three-
fourths vote of the shareholders présent or
represented by proxy at an annual or other
gênerai meeting of the company duly called
for the purpose of considering the by-law,
increase the limit of the amount that may be
borrowed by the company and accepted by
the company in trust for investment, as set
forth in subsection (3), to such an amount as
the said by-law may provide, subject to the
following conditions :
  * (_a_) the power conferred by the said by-law
shall not be exercised by the company
unless the by-law is approved by the
Treasury Board on the recommendation of
the Superintendent ; and
(6) the said by-law shall not increase the
limit beyond, in the aggregate, fifteen times
the excess of the assets of the Company over
its liabilities.
(5) Where a trust company owns more than
ten per cent of the shares of the capital stock
of a loan company within the meaning of the
Loan Companies Act, or where more than ten
per cent of the shares of the capital stock of
a trust company are owned by a loan company
to which the Loan Companies Act applies, the
trust company shall not borrow any money or
accept any money in trust for investment as
set forth in subsection (3) when the aggregate
of the money borrowed by the trust company
and the money borrowed by the loan company
exceeds, or when the borrowing or accepting
of money in trust for investment would cause
that aggregate to exceed, the total amount
that the trust company would be permitted
to borrow and accept in trust for investment
pursuant to subsection (3) or (4) if
  * (_a_) the assets of the trust company were
equal to the aggregate of the assets of the
trust company (excluding therefrom shares
of the capital stock of the loan company)
and the assets of the loan company
(excluding therefrom shares of the capital
stock of the trust company), and
  * (_b_) the liabilities of the trust company were
equal to the aggregate of the liabilities of
the trust company and the liabilities of the
loan company.
(6) Subsections (3), (4) and (5) apply to
every trust company at any time incorporated
by Act of the Parliament of Canada or by
letters patent issued under the authority of
any Act of the Parliament of Canada.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (5) money
borrowed by a trust company includes money
accepted by the company in trust for
investment the repayment of which is guaran-
1964-65, c. 40, s. 34.

## LICENCE

**71.** (1) No Company to which this Act in
or in part applies, or person acting on
its behalf, shall transact the business of a
trust Company unless the company has
obtained from the Minister a licence author-
izing it to do so.
(2) The Minister may issue to any such
Company that has complied with this Act and
is, in the opinion of the Minister, in such a
financial position as to justify its transaction
of the business of a trust company, a licence
authorizing the transaction of the said
business.
(3) The licence shall be in such form as
may be from time to time determined by the
Minister and may contain any limitations or
conditions that the Minister may consistently
with the provisions of this Act deem proper.
(4) The licence expires on the 31st day of
March in each year, but may be renewed from
year to year subject, however, to any
qualification or limitation that is considered
expédient, and such licence may be from time
to time renewed for any term less than a year.
(5) The Minister shall cause to be published
in the Canada Gazette, a list of ail companies
to which licences hâve been issued as aforesaid
in the f irst issue in the month of April in each
year.
(6) Where any company makes application
to the Minister for the issue of a licence under
this section or for the renewal of such licence
and the application is refused by the Minister,
the company has the right of appeal to the
Governor in Council against the décision of
the Minister, and the Governor in Council,
after such hearing given to the company as it
deems necessary or désirable, shall render a
décision on the appeal, which décision is final.
R.S., c. 272, s. 71.

## ANNUAL STATEMENTS

**72.** (1) The company shall, on or before
the Ist day of March in each year, prépare
and deposit in the Department a statement
as of the next preceding 31st day of December,
the assets and liabilities of the
company on the said 31st day of December
and its income and expenditures during the
year then ended, together with such other
information as the Minister may require.
(2) The statement required by subsection
(1) shall be in such form as the Minister
détermines and shall be verified by oath of
the président or a vice-président elected under
subsection 21(1) and of the manager or
secretary of the company. 1958, c. 42, s. 11.

**73.** (1) In this section
"amortized value", when used in relation to
the value of a redeemable security at any
date after purchase, means a value so
determined that if the security were pur-
chased at that date and at that value, the
yield would be the same as the yield with
référence to the original purchase price ;
"annual statement" means the statement
required by section 72 to be deposited in
the Department ;
"market value" means the market value at
the date of the annual statement or, in the
discrétion of the Superintendent, at a date
not more than sixty days before the date of
that statement ;
"redeemable security" means a security being
for a fixed term and redeemable at the end
of that term at a specified value ;
"yield", when used in relation to a redeemable
security, means the effective rate of interest
that will be returned on the purchase price
if the payments of interest specified in the
security are made up to and including the
rédemption date and the security is then
redeemed at the specified value; and, in
the case of a security that is redeemable at
more than one specified date, "rédemption
date" means, for the purposes of this
section, the specified date that gives the
lower or the lowest effective rate of interest,
as the case may be.
(2) For the purposes of the définitions
"amortized value" and "yield" in subsection
(1).
  * (_a_) where a redeemable security is acquired
otherwise than by purchase, it shall be
deemed to hâve been purchased at a price
not exceeding the market value at the date
of acquisition ; and
(6) where the option to redeem a security is
not exercised at the rédemption date used
to détermine the yield, then, with respect
to the remainder of the term. the security
shall be deemed to hâve been purchased at
that date at a price equal to the then
amortized value.
(3) The securities owned by a company or
held in respect of guaranteed trust moneys
shall be taken into account in every annual
statement at values that, in total, do not
exceed the aggregate of
  * (_a_) the amortized values of redeemable
securities not in default, issued or guaran-
teed by the Government of Canada or by
the government of any province of Canada,
and
(6) the market values of ail securities other
than those described in paragraph (a).
(4) Every annual statement required by
this Act to be deposited in the Department
shall show in schedules the market values of
ail securities owned by the company or held
in respect of guaranteed trust moneys at the
date of the statement. 1958, c. 42, s. 12.
ENSPECTIOX

**74.** (1) The Superintendent shall visit per-
sonally, or cause a duly qualified member of
his staff to visit, at least once in each year,
the head office of each company and examine
carefully the statements of the condition and
affairs of each company, and report thereon
to the Minister as to ail matters requiring his
attention and décision.
(2) For the purpose of such examination
the company shall prépare and submit to thè
Superintendent such statement or statements,
with respect to the business, finances or other
affairs of the company, in addition to that
mentioned in section 72, as the Superintendent
may require, and the officers, agents and
of the company shall cause their
to be open for inspection, and shall
otherwise facilitate such examination so far
it is in their power.
(3) The company shall on the request of
a certified copy of its by-laws, and notice
every repeal, or addition to, or amendment
its by-laws shall be filed by the company
the Superintendent within one month
after the date of the repeal, addition or
amendment.
(4) The Superintendent may examine under
oath the officers, agents or servants of the
Company for the purpose of obtaining any
information that he deems necessary for the
purpose of the examination.
(5) fhe Superintendent shall also prépare
for the Minister from the said statements, an
annual report, showing the full particulars of
each company's business. R.S., c. 272, s. 73;
1958, c. 42, s. 13.

**75.** (1) Where as the resuit of the exami-
nation as aforesaid of any company the
Superintendent believes that the assets of the
company are insufficient to justify its con-
tinuance in business, he shall make a spécial
report to the Minister on the condition of
such company.
(2) Where the Minister, after a reasonable
time has been given to the company to be
heard by him, and upon such further inquiry
and investigation as he sees fit to make,
reports to the Governor in Council that he
agrées with the opinion of the Superintendent,
the Governor in Council may, if he also
concurs in such opinion, suspend or cancel the
licence to the company, and the company
shall thereupon cease to transact further
business.
(3) The Minister may, during such suspen-
sion or cancellation, issue such conditional
licence as he may deem to be necessary for
the protection of the public.
(4) Where the Minister deems it advisable,
the conditional licence may provide that the
company shall, during the continuance of the
conditional licence, arrange for the sale of its
assets and for the transfer of its liabilities to
some other company under the provisions of
section 81.
(5) Where upon the expiration of the
conditional licence no arrangement satisfac-
tory to the Minister has been made for such
sale and transfer, and the company's condition
is not then such as to warrant the restoration
the company's licence, the company shall
deemed to be insolvent. R.S., c. 272, s. 74.

**76.** In bis annual report prepared for the
Minister under section 74, the Superintendent
shall
  * (_a_) allow as assets only such of the
investments of the several companies as are
authorized by this Act, or by their Acts of
incorporation, or by the gênerai Acts
applicable to such investments ;
  * (_b_) make ail necessary corrections in the
annual statements made by the companies
as herein provided ; and
  * (_c_) be at liberty to increase or diminish the
assets or liabilities of such companies to the
true and correct amounts thereof as ascer-
tained by him in the examination of their
affairs at the head office thereof, or
otherwise. R.S., c. 272, s. 75.

**77.** (1) The Superintendent may request
any company to dispose of and realize any of
its investments acquired after the 28th day of
June 1922, anH not authorized by this Act,
and the companj' shall within sixty days after
receiving such request absolutely dispose of
and realize those investments, and if the
amount realized therefrom falls below the
amount paid by the company for those
investments, the directors of the company are
jointly and severally liable for the payment
to the company of the amount of the
deficiency.
(2) If any director présent when any such
investment is authorized does forthwith, or if
any director then absent does, within twenty-
four hours after he becomes aware of such
investment and is able to do so, enter on the
minutes of the board of directors bis protest
against the investment, and within eight days
thereafter gives notice of his protest by
registered letter to the Superintendent, that
director may thereby, and not othersvise,
exonerate himself from such liability. R.S., c.
272, s. 76.

**78.** (1) An appeal lies in a summary
manner from the ruling of the Superintendent
to the admissibility of any asset not
allowed by him, or as to any item or amount
added to liabilities, or as to any correction
or altération made in any statement, or as to
any other matter arising in the carrying out
of this Act, to the Exchequer Court of Canada,
which court has power to make ail neeessary
rules for the conduct of appeals under this
section.
(2) For the purposes of such appeal the
Superintendent shall at the request of the
Company interested give a certificate in
writing setting forth the ruling appealed from
and the reasons therefor, which ruling is,
however, binding upon the Company unless
the Company, within fifteen days after notice
of the ruling, serves upon the Superintendent
notice of its intention to appeal therefrom,
setting forth the grounds of appeal, and
within fifteen days thereafter files its appeal
with the registrar of the said court and with
due diligence prosecutes the appeal, in which
case action on the ruling shall be suspended
until the court has rendered judgment thereon.
R.S., c. 272, s. 77.

**79.** (1) Where upon an examination of the
•
j. t ^ ^ j. l
assets of any company it appears to the
Superintendent, or if he has any reason to
suppose, that the value placed by the company
upon the real estate owned by it or any parcel
thereof is too great, he may either require
such company to procure an appraisal of such
real estate by one or more compétent valuators,
or may himself procure such an appraisal at
the company 's expense, and the appraised
value, if it varies materially from the return
made by the company, may be substituted in
the annual report prepared for the Minister
by the Superintendent.
(2) Where, upon such examination, it
appears to the Superintendent, or where he
has any reason to suppose that the amount
secured by mortgage or hypothec upon any
parcel of real estate, together with the interest
due and accrued thereon, is greater than the
value of the parcel, or that the parcel is not
sufficient security for the loan and interest,
he may in like manner require the company
to procure an appraisal thereof, or may
himself at the company's expense procure
such an appraisal, and where from the
appraised value it appears that the parcel of
real estate is not adéquate securitj' for the
loan and interest, he may write off the loan
and interest a sum sufficient to reduce the
same to such an amount as may fairly be
realizable from the security, in no case to
exceed the appraised value, and maj' insert
the reduced amount in his annual report.
R.S., c. 272, s. 78.

## PURCHASE AND SALE

**80.** (1) The Company may acquire the
whole or any part of the business, rights and
property of any other company that the
Company is authorized to carry on, exercise
or hold, conditional upon the assumption by
the company of the duties, obligations and
liabilities of such other compan}- with respect
to the business, rights and property so acquired
as are not performed or discharged by such
other company, but no agreement therefor
takes effect until it has been submitted to and
approved by the Treasury Board.
(2) Without limiting the powers the compa-
ny has under subsection (1), the company
may, for the purpose of acquiring the business,
rights and property of a company pursuant
to subsection (1), purchase not less than sixty-
seven per cent of the outstanding shares of
any other trust company incorporated under
the laws of Canada or of any province thereof
subject to the following provisions :
  * (_a_) no such purchase shall be made unless
authorized by the Treasury Board ;
(6) the Treasury Board may authorize such
purchase on the report of the Superintend-
ant, supported by évidence that
  * (_i_) an offer to purchase has been made to
ail the shareholders of such other trust
company and has been accepted by the
holders of at least sixtj'-seven per cent of
the outstanding shares thereof, such,
évidence of acceptance being in the form
of written agreements or in the form of a
resolution signed by or on behalf of the
shareholders voting therefor, in person or
by proxy, at a meeting of shareholders
duly called to consider the offer, or being
partly in one form and partly in the
other, and
  * (_ii_) the purchase has been approved by
at least a three-fourths vote of such shares
as are represented in person or by proxy
at a meeting of the shareholders duly
called to consider the purchase and
representing at least fifty per cent of the
issued capital stock of the purchasing
Company ;
  * (_c_) the power to purchase shares under this
subsection is in addition to the powers set
forth in section 68, and the limitations and
provisoes contained in that section do not
apply to any such purchase of shares ; and
  * (_d_) where a company has purchased shares
under this subsection, the company shall,
under subsection (1), acquire the business,
rights and property, and assume the duties,
obligations and liabilities, of the other trust
company, within a period of two years after
the purchase has been authorized by the
Treasury Board, but on being satisfied that
the circumstances so warrant, the Treasury
Board may extend that period from time
to time ; and after the expiration of that
period and of any extension thereof, the
shares shall not be allowed as assets of the
purchasing company in the annual report
prepared by the Superintendent for the
Minister and the Superintendent may direct
the company to sell or other^vise absolutely
dispose of the shares.
(3) The considération for the business,
rights and property or for the shares acquired
under the authority of this section may be
cash or shares in the capital stock of the
purchasing companj^ or in part cash and in
part shares of the purchasing company or
such other considération as may be agreed
upon.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed
as authorizing a company to purchase or
acquire its own shares.
(5) Anv provisions in anv letters patent or
'
•
i a ^ u l l l
spécial Act by which a purchasing company
was incorporated, or in any other statute or
law, granting any shareholders or other
persons a primary right to an aUotment of
shares, do not apply to the issue of any shares
by the purchasing company for the purposes
of subsection (3).
(6) Where a company acquires the whole of
the business, rights and property of another
trust company under the authority of this
section, the company may, notwithstanding
section 15, by by-Iaw duly passed by the
directors, increase the number of directors to
any number not exceeding the aggregate of
the number of directors of both companies at
the time of the acquisition, subject to the
condition that as vacancies occur between
annual meetings of the company by reason of
disqualification, résignation or death, no such
vacancy shall be filled and the maximum
number of directors shall be reduced accord-
ingly until the number remaining in office is
not greater than the number permitted by
section 15. R.S., c. 272, s. 79; 1960-61, c. 55,
s. 3.

**81.** (1) The company may sell and dispose
of the whole or any part of the business,
rights and property of the company, for such
considération as the company may think fit.
(2) No sale or disposai shall be made until
it is approved by at least a three-fourths vote
of such shares as are represented in person or
by proxy at a meeting of the shareholders
duly called for that purpose and representing
at least fifty per cent of the issued capital
stock of the company.
(3) No such sale or disposai takes effect
^^^-j -^ j^^^ ^^^^ submitted to and approved
by the Treasury Board.
(4) In any sale under the authority of this
section of the whole of the business, rights
and property of the company to any trust
company, incorporât ed under the laws of
Canada or of any province thereof, the
considération for such sale may, notwith-
standing anything in this Act, be fuUy paid
shares in the capital stock of the purchasing
company or in part cash and in part shares of
such purchasing company or such other
considération as may be agreed upon. R.S., c.
272, s. 80.
to continue as one company (hereinafter
referred to as the "amalgamated company")
under the name of one of the amalgamating
companies or under a new name.
(2) The companies proposing to amalgam-
ate shall enter into an agreement (hereinafter
called an "amalgamation agreement") pre-
scribing
  * (_a_) the terms and conditions of the amal-
gamation;
(6) the name of the amalgamated company ;
  * (_c_) the number of directors of the amal-
gamated company, which number may,
notwithstanding section 15, be any number
not exceeding the aggregate number of
directors of the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement immedi-
ately prior to the amalgamation, subject to
the condition that as vacancies occur
between annual meetings of the amal-
gamated company by reason of disqualifi-
cation, résignation or death, no such vacancy
shall be filled and the maximum number of
directors shall be reduced accordingly until
the number remaining in office is no greater
than the number permitted by section 15;
{d) the names, callings and places of
résidence of the first directors and officers
of the amalgamated company who shall
hold office until the first annual meeting
thereof
  * (_e_) the capital stock of the amalgamated
company, the number of shares into which
that stock is to be divided, and the par
value thereof;
  * (_f_) the manner and terms of issuing shares
of the amalgamated company to the
shareholders of the companies that are
parties to the amalgamation agreement ;
and
  * (_g_) such other matters as may be necessary
to perfect the amalgamation and to provide
for the subséquent management and work-
ing of the amalgamated company.
(3) The directors of each company that is
to the amalgamation agreement shall
  * (_a_) the amalgamation agreement to be
submitted to the shareholders of the
Company for considération at a meeting
duly called for the purpose ;
  * (_b_) notice of the time and place of the
meeting, together with a copy of the
amalgamation agreement, to be sent to each
of the shareholders of the company at least
six weeks before the date of the meeting by
registered mail addressed to the latest
known address of each shareholder as
recorded in the books of the company ;
  * (_c_) notice of the time and place of the
meeting to be given in a newspaper,
published at the place where the head office
of the company is situated, at least once a
week for six successive weeks prier to the
date of the meeting; and
  * (_d_) a copy of the notice that is sent to the
shareholders of the company and a copy of
the amalgamation agreement to be deliv-
ered to the Superintendent at least four
weeks before the date of the meeting.
(4) If, at the meeting of the shareholders of
each company that is party to the amalgama-
tion agreement, the amalgamation agreement
is approved by resolution passed by the
affirmative votes of at least three-fourths of
the shares that are represented in person or
by proxy at the meeting, and such affirmative
vote represents at least fifty per cent of the
issued capital stock of the company,
  * (_a_) that approval shall be certified upon
the amalgamation agreement by the secre-
tary of the company under the seal of the
company; and
(6) two copies of the amalgamation agree-
ment certified as aforesaid by the secretary
of each company shall be filed with the
Superintendent.
(5) An amalgamation agreement has no
force or effect until it has been approved by
the Governor in Council in accordance with
subsection (6).
(6) The Governor in Council shall not
approve the amalgamation agreement unless
  * (_a_) the Treasury Board, on the report of
the Superintendent, recommends that the
amalgamation agreement be approved ;
(6) he is satisfied that the shareholders of
each Company that is a party to the
amalgamation agreement hâve approved it
in accordance with subsection (4) ;
  * (_c_) the amalgamation agreement is submit-
ted to the Governor in Council for approval
within six months from the date of its
exécution; and
  * (_d_) notice of the intention of the companies
that are parties to the amalgamation
agreement to submit the amalgamation
agreement to the Governor in Council for
approval has been published for at least
four weeks in the Canada Gazette and in
one or more newspapers published at the
place where the head office of each company
is situated.
(7) The approval by the Governor in
Council of the amalgamation agreement
amalgamâtes the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement and créâtes
them one body politic and corporate and they
shall continue thereafter as one company
under the name specified in the amalgamation
agreement.
(8) The amalgamated company owns and
possesses ail the property, rights and interests
and is subject to ail the duties, liabilities and
obligations of each company that is party to
the amalgamation agreement and ail of the
shareholders of the companies that are parties
to the amalgamation agreement immediately
before the amalgamation are shareholders of
the amalgamated company.
(9) When approved by the Governor in
Council, the amalgamation agreement has
the force of law and the amalgamated
company shall be deemed to be a trust
company incorporated by spécial Act of the
Parliament of Canada.
(10) Subject to the amalgamation agree-
ment, the amalgamated company shall hâve
ail the powers, privilèges and immunities
conferred by, and be subject to ail the
limitations, liabilities and provisions of this
Act.
(11) The approval of the Governor in
Council of an amalgamation agreement shall
be evidenced by an order of the Governor in
Council and a copy of the order purporting
to hâve annexed thereto a true copy of the
amalgamation agreement, certified by the
Clerk or the Assistant Clerk of the Privy
for Canada, is in ail courts and for
its approval by the Governor in Council and
of the regularity of ail proceedings in
connection therewith. 1960-61, c. 55, s. 4.

**83.** (1) Nothing in this Act affects the
validity of any investment or loan made on
or before the Ist day of July 1922.
(2) Ail investments or loans made after the
Ist day of July 1922 shall be such as are
authorized by this Act unless such investments
or loans were contracted for before that date.
(3) The loaning and investment powers of
a trust Company shall be determined by
référence exclusively to this Act notwithstand-
ing anything contained in the spécial Act by
which the company was incorporated, the
Canada Corporations Act, or any other statute
or law.
(4) Nothing in this Act opérâtes to reduce
the number of directors or increase the number
forming a quorum of directors of any company
permitted under the laws applicable to such
company on the Ist day of July 1922. R.S., c.
272, s. 81.

## PENSION FUNDS

**84.** (1) Every trust company is hereby
declared to hâve possessed, since the date of
its incorporation, in addition to any other
powers possessed by it, the power to provide,
either by itself or jointly in association with
any loan company, by whatever authority
incorporated, for the création of a staff
pension and insurance fund, by by-law of the
directors submitted to and approved at an
annual gênerai meeting of the company or at
a spécial gênerai meeting thereof, notice of
the intention to consider such by-law having
been in either case given in the same manner
and at the same time as notice of such
meeting.
(2) Notwithstauding section 3, subsection
(1) applies to every trust company, whenever
incorporated, whose incorporation is subject
législative jurisdictionoftheParliament
Canada. R.S., c. 272, s. 82.

## PENALTIES

**85.** (1) Any director who authorizes pay-
of or any manager or any other officer
or servant of the company who pays or causes
to be paid any money for or on account of
the incorporation or organization expenses of
the company after the certificate permitting
the company to commence business has been
obtained from the Minister, except and unless
the liability so paid has been disclosed to the
Minister at the time of the application for
such certificate, is guilty of an indictable
offence and liable to imprisonment for any
term not exceeding two years.
(2) Every director, officer and servant of
the company who refuses or wilfully neglects
to make any proper entry in the books of the
company is guilty of an indictable offence
and liable to imprisonment for any term not
exceeding two years.
(3) The making of any wilfully false or
deceptive statement in any account, state-
ment, return, report or other document
respecting the affairs of the company, or the
using of any false or deceptive statement in
any account, statement, return, report or other
document respecting the affairs of the com-
pany with intent to deceive or mislead any
person, is an indictable offence punishable,
unless a greater punishment is in any case by
law prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years. R.S., c. 272,
ss. 83, 84, 85.

**86.** Every director, auditor, manager or
other officer of the company, and every
auditor and inspector who negligently
prépares, signs, approves or concurs in any
account, statement, return, report or document
respecting the affairs of the company con-
taining any false or deceptive statement, is
guilty of an indictable offence punishable,
unless a greater punishment is in any case by
law prescribed therefor, by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding three years. R.S., c. 272,

**86.**
gj, Every director, officer and servant of
^"^ .1 company, who, 1 on the ^, application i- ^- of e any
or creditor of the company or of
the Personal représentatives of any such
shareholder or creditor or of any judgment
creditor of a shareholder, refuses or neglects
to produce any of the books mentioned in
subsection 35(1) within his power or control,
or who refuses or neglects to allow any of
such books to be inspected and extracts to be
taken therefrom, during reasonable business
hours of any business day of the company, is
guilty of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars. R.S., c. 272, s. 87.
gg, Every director, officer and servant of
^^6 company who refuses to produce for
examination to the Superintendent or any
member of his staff duly authorized by him
to examine the statement of the condition
and affairs of the company, ail books and
documents in his custody or control, is guilty
of an offence and liable on summary
conviction to a penalty not exceeding fifty
dollars and costs. R.S., c. 272, s. 88.
g9. Every company that makes default in
depositing in the Department the annual
statement as required by this Act shall incur
a penalty of ten dollars for each day during
which the default continues. 1958, c. 42, s. 14.

**90.** (1) Any company or person that does,
(.auggg qj. permits to be done any matter, act
or thing contrary to any provision of this Act,
or to the orders or directions of the Governor
in Council, or of the Minister, or of the
Superintendent, made under this Act, or omits
to do any matter, act or thing by this Act
required to be done by or on the part of such
company or person, is, if no other penalty for
such act or omission is provided in this Act,
liable for each such offence to a penalty of
not less than twenty dollars and not more
than five thousand dollars in the discrétion
of the court before which such penalty is
(2)Such company or person is also, in
injured by such matter, act or thing, or by
such omission, for ail damages sustained
thereby. R.S., c. 272, s. 90.

**91.** (1) The amount of the penalties
imposed upon a company or person for any
violation of this Act is, unless otherwise
provided by tliis Act, recoverable and enforce-
able with costs at the suit of Her Majesty
instituted by the Attorney General of Canada
or by the Minister.
(2) Such penalties, unless otherwise provid-
ed by this Act, belong to the Crown for the
public uses of Canada, but the Governor in
Council, on the report of the Treasury Board,
may direct that any portion of any penalty
be remitted. R.S., c. 272, s. 91.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE

## MODEL BILL FOR INCORPORATION

## OF A TRUST COMPANY
An Act to incorporate the (state the name oj the Company)
Whereas the persons hereinafter named hâve by their péti-
tion prayed that it be enacted as hereinafter set forth and it is
expédient to grant the prayer of the said pétition ;
Therefore Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate and House of Gommons of Canada, enacts as
f ollows :

**1.** (.Insert the names of the persons applying jor incorpora-
tion), together with such persons as become shareholders in
the Company, are incorporated under the name of (state name
oj Company) hereinafter called "the company".

**2.** The persons named in section 1 (or as the case may be)
shall be the provisional directors of the company. (The name,
address and calling of each director must be given).

**3.** The capital stock of the company shall be
dollars, which may be increased to dollars.

**4.** The amount to be subscribed before the provisional direc-
tors may call a gênerai meeting of the shareholders shall be
dollars.

**5.** The company shall not commence business until
dollars of the capital stock hâve been subscribed and
dollars paid thereon.

**6.** The head office of the company shall be in the
of in the province of

**7.** The company has ail the powers, privilèges and immuni-
ties conferred by, and is subject to ail the limitations, liabilities
and provisions of, the Trust Companies Act.
1958, c. 42, s. 15.
