
# CHAPTER T.2
Act respecting interprovincial and inter-
national teleferries

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Tekferry
Act. 1967-68, c. 22, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Commission" meansthe Canadian Transport
Commission;
"licence" means a teleferry licence or any
renewal thereof ;
"licensee" means the holder of a teleferry
licence ;
"teleferry" means a device for the conveyance
of passengers or chattels above water or
land, otherwise than vertically, by means
of vehicles supported by cables and more
commonly referred to as a gondola lift,
aerial cable-car, suspension line or aerial
passenger tramway, and includes the land,
structures, machinery and approaches neces-
sary to the opération of the device. 1967-68,
c. 22, s. 2.

## APPLICATION
3, ^his Act applies to every teleferry
Connecting a province with any other province
or Connecting Canada and the United States.
1967-68, c. 22, s. 3.

## TELEFERRY LICENCE

**4.** (1) Nq teleferry shall be constructed or
except in accordance with the terms
and conditions of a licence issued in respect
thereof pursuant to this Act.
(2) Subject to section 7, a licence may be
issued only to a company incorporated under
the laws of Canada or any province thereof.
1967-68, c. 22, s. 4.

**5.** xj^e Govemor in Council may from time
to time authorize the issue of licences under
this Act for any period not exceeding fifty
years, as the exigencies of the case require.
1967-68, c. 22, s. 5.

**6.** The issue of a licence pursuant to this
Act does not give the licensee any exclusive
right, privilège or franchise to operate a
teleferry so as to prevent any other person
from acquiring a licence in or adjacent to the
area in which a licensed teleferry is being
operated. 1967-68, c. 22, s. 6.

**7.** Where a teleferry to which this Act
applies had been constructed or was under
construction or in opération before the
commencement of this Act, the owner thereof
is entitled to receive a temporary licence in
respect of such teleferry if he is unable to
qualify otherwise for a licence under this Act,
but a temporary licence shall be for such
period not being less than one year or more
than five years as the Govemor in Council
may détermine. 1967-68, c. 22, s. 7.

**8.** In addition to any other penalty
prescribed by law, a licence issued pursuant
to this Act is liable to cancellation
  * (_a_) for any violation bj' the licensee, or any
agent or emploj'ee thereof, of the régula-
tions; or
(6) for any violation by the licensee, or any
agent or employée thereof, of the customs
or immigration laws of Canada or the
United States if the teleferry connects
Canada and the United States. 1967-68, c.
22, s. 8.
TOLLS

**10.** (1) The Commission has jurisdiction
control over tolls to be charged in respect
of traffic on any teleferry between Canada
and the United States, and the provisions of
the Railway Act relating to tolls and tariffs
in respect of international bridges apply
mutatis mutandis.
(2) The Govemor in Council may make
régulations respecting the tolls or rates at
which persons and chattels shall be carried by
teleferries Connecting a province with any
other province and prescribing the manner
and places at which such tolls or rates shall
be published or made known. 1967-68, c. 22, s.

**10.**

## SAFETY

**11.** The Bridges Act applies to a teleferry
with like effect as if the teleferry were a
bridge to which that Act applies. 1967-68, c.
22, s. 11.

## REGULATIONS

**12.** The Governor in Council may make
régulations for carrying out the purposes of
this Act and in particular, but without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, may make
régulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the terms and conditions of
licences under this Act and the manner in
which and the period for which and by
whom licences are to be issued and the fées
theref or ;
(6) respecting the size, strength and descrip-
tion of the cars, cables, pylons, anchors and
other components of a teleferry, and
respecting the nature of the accommodation
and f acilities to be provided and maintained
at the expense of the licensee for the
carrying out of any necessary customs or
immigration services ;
  * (_c_) governing the inspection of a teleferry
during construction and thereafter by
compétent engineers and safety inspectors
and the making of periodical reports of
such inspections ;
  * (_d_) regulating the conduct of licensees in
respect of teleferries and, where necessary
to do so for the public convenience,
regulating the times and frequencies of trips
by the vehicles of the teleferries ;
  * (_e_) respecting the nature and amount of
insurance to be carried by licensees in
respect of teleferries operated by them and
assuring, by the provision of sureties or
otherwise, the availability of funds to
defray the removal costs of teleferries upon
abandonment thereof or the cancellation of
the licence therefor ;
(/) respecting the cancellation of a teleferry
licence, in conséquence of the conditions
thereof or any of them not having been
fulfilled, or in conséquence of such licence
having been obtained by fraud or misre-
presentation or through error; and
  * (_g_) respecting the charges that may be made
for any inspection and other services
provided pursuant to this Act. 1967-68, c.
22, s. 12.

## OFFENCE

**13.** A licensee who violâtes any of the
provisions of this Act or the régulations is
guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction. 1967-68, c. 22, s. 13.

## COMMENCEMENT

**14.** xhis Act shall come into force on a
day to be fixed by proclamation. 1967-68, c.
22, s. 14.
