
# CHAPTER T.3
An Act respecting telegraphs

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** xhis Act may be cited as the Telegraphs
^c(. R.S., c. 262, s. 1.

## PARTI

## SECRECY
2 . The Minister of Communications or such
officer or person as he appoints for that
purpose, may détermine and décide that any
employée in connection with any telegraph
Une wholly or partly under the control of the
Government of Canada, shall not be required
to make the déclaration as to secrecy provided
for in this Part. R.S., c. 262, s. 2; 1968-69, c.
28, s. 100.

**3.** Subject to section 2, every person who is
employed in connection with any telegraph
line wholly or partly under the control of the
Government of Canada as an operator or in
any other capacity in which he has oppor-
tunities of becoming acquainted with infor-
mation connected with matters of state or
with any other information, shall, before
entering upon the duties of such employment,
take and subscribe a déclaration in the form
set forth in the schedule before a justice of
the peace or before a person appointed by the
Governor in Council to take déclarations
under this Part. R.S., c. 262, s. 3.

**4.** AU déclarations taken under this Part
shall be forwarded to the Department of
Communications, and kept on file in the
Department ; and a register thereof shall be
kept in the Department. R.S., c. 262, s. 4;
1968-69, c. 28, s. 100.

**5.** Every person who has made the décla-
ration hereinbefore mentioned, and who,
either directly or indirectly, divulges to any
person, except when lawfully authorized or
directed to do so, any information that he
acquires by virtue of his employment, is
guilty of an offence against this Part, and is
liable on summary conviction before a justice
of the peace to a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars and not less than fifty dollars,
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
six months, or to both fine and imprisonment.
R.S., c. 262, s. 5.

**6.** Every telegraph operator or other person
in the employ of a telegraph company, who
divulges the contents of any telegram, except
when lawfully authorized or directed to do
so, is guilty of an offence against this Part,
and is liable on summary conviction before a
justice of the peace to a fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars and not less than fifty
dollars, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months, or to both fine and
imprisonment. R.S., c. 262, s. 6.

## PART II

## ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH COMPANIES
Interprétation

**7.** In this Part "the company" means a
company incorporated by letters patent under
the Canada Corporations Act for the purpose
of constructing a line or lines of electric
telegraph in Canada. R.S., c. 262, s. 7.
Construction of Lines

**8.** (1) The company may construct the
lines of telegraph authorized by its charter,
along and upon any of the public roads and
highways, or across or under any of the
navigable waters within Canada, by the
érection of the necessary fixtures, including
posts, piers or abutments for sustaining or
the wires or cables of such lines.
(2) The lines shall be so constructed as not
to incommode the public use of such roads or
highways, or to impede free access to any
house or other building erected in the vicinity
of the lines, or injuriously to interrupt the
navigation of such waters. R.S., c. 262, s. 8.

**9.** Nothing herein contained confers on the
companj' the right of building a bridge over
any navigable water. R.S., c. 262, s. 9.
Transmission of Messages

**10.** (1) The Company shall transmit ail
dispatches in the order in which they are
received.
(2) Every message in relation to the
administration of justice, the arrest of crimi-
nals, the discovery or prévention of crime,
and Government messages or dispatches, shall
always be transmitted in préférence to any
other message or dispatch, if so required by
any person connected with the administration
of justice, or any person thereunto authorized
by the Secretary of State of Canada. R.S., c.
262, s. 10.
Expropriation

**11.** (1) Her Majesty may, at any time,
assume, and for anj' length of time retain,
possession of any such telegraph line and of
ail things necessarj' to the sufficient working
thereof, and may, for the same time, require
the exclusive service of the operators and
other persons employed in working such line ;
and the company shall give up possession
thereof.
(2) The operators and other persons so
employed shall, during the time of such
possession, diligently and faithfully obey such
orders, and transmit and receive such dis-
patches as they are required to receive and
transmit by any duly authorized ofBcer of the
Government of Canada. R.S., c. 262, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Her Majesty may, at any time after
the commencement of the opération of a
telegraph line under this Part, and after two
months notice to the company, assume the
possession and property thereof.
(2) Upon such assumption, the Une and ail
the property, real or personal, essential to the
working thereof, and ail the rights and
privilèges of the company with respect to the
line, shall be vested in the Crown. R.S., c.
262, s. 12.
Arbitration

**13.** (1) If any différences arise between the
company and those who act for the Crown, as
to the compensation that ought to be paid to
the company for any telegraph line and
appurtenances taken possession of or tem-
porarily and exclusively used by the Crown
under this Part, such différences shall be
referred to three arbitrators, one to be
appointed on the part of the Crown, another
by the company, and the third by the two
arbitrators so appointed.
(2) The award of any two of the arbitrators
is final.
(3) If the company refuses or neglects to
appoint an arbitrator on its behalf, or if the
two arbitrators cannot agrée upon a third
arbitrator, then such arbitrator or third
arbitrator shall be appointed by any two
judges of the Suprême Court of Canada, on
application on the part of the Crown. R.S., c.
262, s. 13.
Penalties

**14.** Every company that violâtes the
provisions of this Part in référence to the
order in which messages received by it are to
be transmitted, incurs a penalty not exceeding
one hundred dollars and not less than twenty
dollars, which is recoverable on summary
conviction with costs by the person whose
dispatch has been postponed out of its order.
R.S., c. 262, s. 14.

**15.** (1) Every company that on request
duly made in that behalf refuses or neglects
to give up and transfer possession of any
telegraph line and of ail things necessary to
the sufficient working thereof, or, having so
given up and transferred possession, neglects
or refuses to allow Her Majesty to continue
in such possession for any length of time
in that behalf , or refuses or neglects
on request duly made in that behalf to give
and hand over to Her Majesty the exclusive
service of the operators and other persons
employed in working such line incurs a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars
for every such refusai or neglect.
(2) Every operator and other person in the
employ of the said company who does not,
after such possession is taken and during the
whole period of such possession, diligently
and faithfully obey such orders and transmit
or receive such dispatches as they are required
to transmit and receive by any duly authorized
officer of the Government of Canada, incurs
a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars
for every such refusai or neglect.
(3) The penalty is recoverable by the Crown
for the public uses of Canada with costs in
any way in which debts of like amounts are
recoverable by the Crown. R.S., c. 262, s. 15.

## PART III

## MARINE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH

## COMPANIES
Interprétation

**16.** jn this Part
"company" means any company or association
of persons to which this Part applies ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Communi-
cations. R.S., c. 262, s. 16; 1968-69, c. 28, s.

**100.**
Application

**17.** This Part applies to every company
  * (_a_) authorized after the 8th day of April
1875, by any spécial or gênerai Act of the
Parliament of Canada, or under this Part
to construct or maintain télégraphie wires
or cables, in, upon, under or across any
gulf , bay or branch of any sea or any tidal
water within the jurisdiction of Canada, or
the shore or bed thereof respectively, so as
to connect any province with any other
province of Canada, or to extend beyond
the limits of any province ;
(6) authorized to construct or maintain such
télégraphie wires or cables before the 8th
day of April 1875, by any such spécial or
gênerai Act of the Parliament of Canada,
or by any other spécial Act or charter of
an\- of the provinces constituting Canada,
and at that date in force in Canada ; or
  * (_c_) authorized under the laws of Newfound-
land as they existed immediately prior to
the expiration of the 31st day of March
1949 to construct or maintain télégraphie
wires or cables, in, upon, under or across
any gulf, bay or branch of any sea or any
tidal water within the jurisdiction of
Newfoundland, or the shore or bed thereof
respectively, so as to extend beyond the
limits of Newfoundland, and declared by
proclamation of the Governor in Council to
be subject to this Part. R.S., c. 262, s. 17;
1953-54, c. 22, s. 1.

**18.** This Act does not affect any franchise,
right or privilège that the New York,
Newfoundland and London Telegraph Com-
pany or an}' other company, or person
lawfully entitled thereto, actually acquired
and exercised or operated in Prince Edward
Island before and up to the Ist day of July
1873 under and subject to any Act of the
législature of Prince Edward Island made and
passed before that day. U.S., c. 262, s. 18.
Powers

**19.** The company may, with the consent
of the Governor in Council, take and
appropriate for the use of the company, for
its stations, offices and works, but shall not
alienate, so much of the land held by the
Crown for the purposes of Canada, and the
shore or bed adjacent to or covered by any
gulf, bay or branch of the sea, or by any tidal
province of Canada any land or other
necessary for the construction,
maintenance, accommodation and use of the
telegraph and works of the company, and
may also alienate, sell and dispose of the
same when no longer required for the purposes
of the Company. R.S., c. 262, s. 20.
2 1. (1) The Company may also acquire any
land necessary for the construction, mainte-
nance and use of the télégraphie cable and
works of the company, adjacent to or near the
shore end or place of landing of the telegraph.
(2) If the company and the person from
whom the land is to be acquired fail to agrée
as to the possession or price of such land, the
company may enter upon and take such land,
not exceeding five acres in extent, under the
powers, authorities and provisions of the
Railway Act.
(3) The sections of the Railway Act relating
to compulsory powers for the acquisition of
lands apply to, and the powers and authorities
contained therein shall be vested in and may
be exercised by, every company to which this
Part applies. R.S., c. 262, s. 21.

**22.** The company shall not exercise any of
the powers conferred by this Part until
  * (_a_) the company has submitted to the
Governor in Council, a plan and survey of
the proposed site and location of such
telegraph and its approaches at the shore,
and of its stations, offices and accommoda-
tions on land and of ail the intended works
appertaining thereto,
(6) such plan, site and location hâve been
approved by the Governor in Council, and
  * (_c_) such conditions as he thinks fit for the
public good to impose concerning the said
telegraph and works, hâve been complied
with. R.S., c. 262, s. 22.
Construction

**23.** The company shall not place any
télégraphie wire, cable or work connected
therewith in, under, upon, over, along or
across any gulf, bay or branch of the sea, or
any tidal water, or the shore or bed thereof
respectiveh', except with the consent of ail
persons having any right of property or other
right, or any power, jurisdiction or authority
in, over or relating to the same, that may be
affected or be liable to be affected by the
exercise of the powers of the company. R.S.,
c. 262, s. 23.

**24.** (1) Before commencing the construc-
tion of any such telegraph or work mentioned
in section 23, or of any buoy or sea-mark
connected therewith, the company shall
deposit, at the Department of Communica-
tions, a plan thereof, for the approval of the
Minister.
(2) In cases of emergency, for repairs to any
work previously constructed or laid, the plan
thereof shall be so deposited as speedily as
may be after the commencement of the work.
R.S., c. 262, s. 24; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 100.

**25.** (1) The work shall not be constructed
otherwise than in accordance with the plan as
approved by the Minister.
(2) If any work is constructed otherwise or
without compliance with the provisions of
section 24, the Minister maj', at the expense
of the company, abate and remove it, or any
part of it, and restore the site thereof to its
former condition. R.S., c. 262, s. 25.

**26.** The company may, in or about the
construction, maintenance or repairs of any
such work, use on board ship or elsewhere any
light or signal allowed by any régulation
made in that behalf bv the Minister. R.S., c.
262, s. 26.

**27.** If any such work, buoy or sea-mark is
abandoned or allowed to fall into decay, the
Minister may, if and as he thinks fit, at the
expense of the company, abate and remove
it, and restore the site thereof to its former
R.S., c. 262, s. 27.

**28.** The Minister ma}', at any time, at the
of the company, cause to be made a
and examination of any such work.
buoy or sea-mark, or of the site thereof. R.S.,
c. 262, s. 28.

**29.** Whenever the Minister, under the
authority of this Act, does, in relation to any
such work, any act or thing that he is, by this
Part, authorized to do at the expense of the
Company, the amount of such expense is a
debt due by the company to the Crown, and
is recoverable as such with costs, or as a
penalty on summary conviction. R.S., c. 262,
s. 29.

**30.** (1) No Company other than a company
to which this Part applies shall construct,
maintain or use any télégraphie wire or cable
Connecting two or more provinces of Canada,
or extending beyond the limits of any
province, in, upon, under or across any gulf,
bay or branch of any sea or any tidal water
within the jurisdiction of Canada, or the shore
or bed thereof respectively.
(2) Any existing telegraph company may
continue to receive and transmit messages
over its line of marine telegraph, until such
time as another company, under the authoritj-
and within the provisions of this Part,
constructs and is operating a line or lines of
marine telegraph that has been determined
by the Governor in Council to afford
reasonable facilities for the transmission of
marine télégraphie messages, in lieu of the
line or lines of such existing telegraph
company, or to be a line or lines for doing
business over a route of a compétitive nature,
and until the order in council declaring such
détermination has been published for three
months in the Canada Gazette. R.S., c. 262, s.

**30.**
Transmission of Messages
3 1. (1) The company shall transmit ail
messages
  * (_a_) in the order in which they are received
or in such order as the Canadian Transport
Commission may require or direct, and
(6) at such rates as may be determined from
time to time by the Commission for the
différent classes of messages, or hours of
the day or night during which such messages
are transmitted, without discrimination
within each class.
(2) Everj' companj' violating anj^ of the
provisions of this section incurs a penalty not
exceeding two hundred dollars, and not less
than fifty dollars.
(3) The penalty is recoverable on summary
conviction, with costs, by the person aggrieved.
R.S., c. 262, s. 31 ; 196&-67, c. 69, s. 94.

**32.** The Company may charge for the
transmission of messages, and maj- demand
and collect in advance such rates of payment
therefor as are fixed by by-law of the company
as its tariff rates and approved by the
Canadian Transport Commission. R.S., c. 262,
s. 32; 1966-67, c. 69, s. 94.

**33.** (1) Xotwithstanding anvthing con-
"1
tained .-ji- herein arrangements . may be made 11 by
any such company with the proprietors or
publishers of newspapers for the transmission,
for the purpose of publication, of intelligence
of gênerai and public interest, out of its
regular order and at less rates of charge than
its regular tariff rates.
(2) Every such arrangement is subject to
the approval of the Canadian Transport
Commission. R.S., c. 262, s. 33; 1966-67, c. 69,
s. 94.

**34.** Every message in relation to the
administration of justice, the arrest of crimi-
nals, the discovery or prévention of crime,
and Government messages or dispatches, shall
always be transmitted in préférence to any
other message or dispatch, if required by any
person officially charged with the adminis-
tration of justice, or by any person thereunto
authorized by the Secretary of State of
Canada. R.S., c. 262, s. 34.
Incorporation of British Companies

**35.** (1) If any company is on or after the
8th day of April 1875 authorized by any
spécial Act of the Parliament of Great Britain,
or is incorporated under the Statutes of the
Parliament of Great Britain relating to joint
stock companies, or any other gênerai Act of
the Parliament of Great Britain, or by Royal
for establishing or maintaining télé-
graphie communication, in, upon, under or
across any gulf, bay or branch of any sea or
tidal water within the jurisdiction of Canada,
the Governor in Council may, by letters
patent under the Great Seal, and upon the
terms and conditions contained therein, grant
a charter to the persons f orming such company
upon the company petitioning therefor.
(2) Such persons and others who become
shareholders in the company shall be con-
stituted a body corporate and politic, by the
same name, and with the same power and
constitution in Canada, for the said purpose
and object of establishing and maintaining
their telegraph and works within the jurisdic-
tion of Canada.
(3) Any such grant shall be expressly subject
to this Part, and conditional upon the
company observing and perf orming the several
provisions hereof. R.S., c. 262, s. 35.

**36.** Such letters patent, when published in
the Canada Gazette with any orders in council
relating thereto, hâve the like force and effect
as if the company had been incorporated by
spécial Act of Parliament. R.S., c. 262, s. 36.

**37.** No such letters patent or grant of
corporate powers to be exercised within the
jurisdiction of Canada shall be made to or
conferred upon any company that possesses
any exclusive privilège of landing wire or
cable and establishing a marine telegraph in
or upon the coast of any state, province or
country in America, Europe or elsewhere,
unless an equal or reciprocal right or privilège
of landing wire or cable, and establishing â
marine telegraph upon the same coast is
conceded to any and each of the companies
to which this Part applies. R.S., c. 262, s. 37.

**38.** Every such letters patent or grant of
corporate powers made to or conferred upon
any such company may be declared forfeited
and revoked by any Act of the Parliament of
Canada
  * (_a_) for non-user for three consécutive years ;
(6) in case the company does net go into
actual opération within three years after
the issue of the letters patent granting such
powers; or
  * (_c_) if the Company at any time possesses or
acquires any exclusive right or privilège of
landing wire or cable and establishing a
marine telegraph in or upon the coast of
any state, province or country in America,
Europe or elsewhere, and an equal or
reciprocal right or privilège of landing wire
or cable and establishing a marine telegraph
on the same coast is not conceded to every
Company to which this Part applies. R.S.,
c. 262, s. 38.
Reciprocal Agreement

**39.** (1) No Company to which this Part
applies shall enter into any agreement for the
transmission or interchange of messages, or
for participation in profits, or for the union
or consolidation of capital stock, with any
Company that at any time possesses or acquires
any such exclusive privilège of landing wire
or cable and establishing a marine telegraph,
in Newfoundland or the Danish possessions,
unless such equal or reciprocal right is
conceded.
(2) Every agreement contrary to this section
is illégal and void. R.S., c. 262, s. 39.

## PART IV

## EXTERNAL SUBMARINE CABLES
Interprétation

**40.** In this Part "external submarine cable"
means a télécommunication service by sub-
marine cable between any place in Canada
and any place outside Canada or between
places outside Canada through Canada, but
does not include any service by a submarine
cable wholly under fresh water; and the
"télécommunication" has the same
as it has in the Radio Act. 1956, c.
s. 1.
Licences

**41.** No person shall in Canada
  * (_a_) operate an external submarine cable, or
(6) construct, alter, maintain or operate any
Works or facilities for the purpose of
operating an external submarine cable,
except under and in accordance with a licence
issued under this Part. 1956, c. 49, s. 1.
Regulatiom

**42.** The Govemor in Council may make
régulations
  * (_o_) providing for the issue of licences for
the purposes of this Part ;
(6) respecting applications for licences and
prescribing the information to be furnished
by the applicants ;
  * (_c_) prescribing the duration, terms and
conditions of licences and the fées for the
issue thereof ;
  * (_d_) providing for the cancellation or sus-
pension of licences for failure to comply
with the terms and conditions thereof; and
  * (_e_) generally, for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Part into effect. 1956, c.
49, s. 1.
Penalties

**43.** Every person who violâtes any provi-
sion of this Part or the régulations is guilty
of an offence and is liable
  * (_a_) on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both; or
(6) on conviction on indictment, to a fine
not exceeding five thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding
twelve months, or to both. 1956, c. 49, s. 1.

**44.** Her Majesty is bound by this Act. 1956,
c. 49, s. 1.
[See schedule on the following page.]

## SCHEDULE
I, A.B., solemnly and sincerely promise and déclare that I
will faithfuUy and honestly fuLfil the duties which devolve
upon me as operator {or in other capacity, as the case may he)
upon {state the Une of telegraph), and that I will not, either
directly or indirectly, divulge to any person, except when
lawfully authorized or directed so to do, any information that
I acquire by virtue of my employment as such operator (.or in
other capacity, as the case may be).
(Signature)

## A3.
Declared before me, \
etc. J
R.S., c. 262, Sch.
