Sea and Fishing Zones Act. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 1.

**2.** Every provision of this Act extends and
applies to every Act of the Parliament of
Canada, now or hereafter passed, and to every
order, rule or régulation thereunder, except
in so far as any such provision is inconsistent
with the intent or object of such Act, order,
rule or régulation, or would give to any word,
expression or clause thereof an interprétation
répugnant to the subject-matter or the context,
or is, in any such Act, order, rule or régulation,
declared not applicable thereto. 1964-65, c. 22,
s. 2.

**3.** (1) Subject to any exceptions under
section 5, the territorial sea of Canada
comprises those areas of the sea having, as
their inner limits, the baselines described in
section 5 and, as their outer limits, lines
measured seaward and equidistant from such
baselines so that each point of the outer limit
line of the territorial sea is distant three
nautical miles from the nearest point of the
baseline.
(2) The internai waters of Canada include
any areas of the sea that are on the landward
of the baselines of the territorial sea of
Canada. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 3.
4, (1) Subject to any exceptions under
inner limits, the outer limits of the territorial
sea and, as their outer limits, lines measured
seaward and equidistant from such inner
limits so that each point of the outer limit
line of a fishing zone is distant nine nautical
miles from the nearest point of the inner limit
line.
(2) Unless otherwise specified therein, the
laws of Canada respecting fishing and the
exploitation of the living resources of the sea
apply to the fishing zones of Canada in the
same way and to the same extent as they
apply to the territorial sea of Canada. 1964-
65, c. 22, s. 4.

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by
order in council, issue one or more lists of
geographical coordinates of points from which
baselines may be determined and may, as he
deems necessary, amend such lists.
(2) In respect of any area for which
geographical coordinates of points hâve been
listed in a list issued pursuant to subsection
(1) and subject to any exceptions in the list
for the use of the low water line along the
coast as the baseline between given points,
baselines are straight lines joining the con-
sécutive geographical coordinates of points so
listed.
(3) In respect of any other area and until
such time as geographical coordinates of
points hâve, for such other area, been listed
in a list issued pursuant to subsection (1),
baselines remain those applicable immediate-
Iv before the 23rd dav of Julv 1964.
(4) Where, in his opinion, a portion of the
territorial sea of Canada or a portion of the
fishing zones of Canada, determined, respec-
tively, in accordance with subsection 3(1) or
subsection 4(1), would conflict with the
territorial sea of a country other than Canada
or would be unreasonably close to the coast
a countrj' other than Canada, the Governor
Council may, by order in council, issue a
of geographical coordinates of points from
  * (_a_) in respect of the portion of the territorial
sea of Canada désignât ed in the list, an
outer limit Une may be determined in
substitution for the territorial sea outer
limit line described in subsection 3(1), and
  * (_b_) in respect of the portion of the fishing
zones of Canada designated in the list, an
outer limit line may be determined in
substitution for the fishing zone outer limit
line described in subsection 4(1),
and the outer limit lines referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (6) shall, thereupon, be
substituted.
(5) Where an outer limit line of a portion
of the territorial sea of Canada has been
substituted pursuant to subsection (4) of this
section, section 4 shall not apply to create a
contiguous fishing zone in respect of such
portion. 1964-65, c. 22, s. 5.

**6.** The Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources may cause charts to be issued
delineating the territorial sea of Canada and
the fishing zones of Canada or of any portions
thereof as may be delineated consistent with
the nature and scale of the chart. 1964-65, c.
22, s. 6; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 45.
