
**2.** In this Act "Minister" means the
Minister of the Crown named by the Governor
in Council to administer this Act. R.S., c. 265,
s. 2.

**3.** Every person engaged in the business of
lumbering or the getting out of timber, and
of the floating or rafting of the same on the
inland waters of Canada, within the Provinces
of Ontario, Québec and New Brunswick, shall,
within one month after he engages therein,
sélect a mark or marks, and cause such mark
or marks to be registered in the raanner
hereinafter provided. R.S., c. 265, s. 3.

**4.** (1) The Minister shall keep a book to be
called the Timber Mark Register, in which
any person engaged in the business of
lumbering or getting out timber as aforesaid,
may hâve his timber mark registered upon
depositing with the Minister a drawing or
impression and description in duplicate of
such timber mark, together with a déclaration
that the timber mark is not and was not in
use, to his knowledge, by any person other
than himself at the time of his adoption
thereof.
(2) The Minister, on receipt of the fee
hereinafter provided, shall cause the timber
mark to be examined, to ascertain whether it
resembles any other mark already registered
and, if he finds that such mark is not identical
with, or does not so closely resemble any other
mark already registered as to be
confounded therewith, he shall register the
timber mark, and shall return to the proprietor
thereof one copy of the drawing and descrip-
tion, with a certificate signed by the Minister
or the Commissioner of Patents, to the effect
that the mark has been duly registered in
accordance with this Act.
(3) The certificate shall further set forth
the day, month and year of the entry thereof,
in the proper register; and every such
certificate shall be received in ail courts in
Canada as évidence of the facts therein
alleged, without proof of the signature. R.S.,
c. 265, s. 4.

**5.** The person who registers such timber
mark thereafter has the exclusive right to use
the mark, to designate the timber got out by
him and floated or rafted as aforesaid ; and
he shall put the mark in a conspicuous place
on each log or pièce of timber so floated or
rafted. R.S., c. 265, s. 5.

**6.** Any person who has registered a timber
mark may pétition for its cancellation, and
the Minister may, on receiving such pétition,
cause the mark to be cancelled ; and the mark
shall, after the cancellation, be considered as
if it had never been registered under the name
of that person. R.S., c. 265, s. 6.

**7.** Every registered timber mark is assigna-
ble in law ; and, on the production of the
assignment and the payment of the fee
hereinafter mentioned, the Minister shall
cause the name of the assignée, with the date
of the assignment, and such other détails as
he sees fit, to be entered on the margin of the
register of timber marks on the folio where
such mark is registered. R.S., c. 265, s. 7.

**8.** If any person makes application to
register, as his own, any timber mark that is
already registered, the Minister shall give
notice of the fact to such person, who may
then sélect some other mark and forward the
same for registration. R.S., c. 265, s. 8.

**9.** No person, other than the person who
has registered the same, shall mark any timber
of any description with any mark registered
under this Act, or with any part of such mark.
R.S., c. 265, s. 9.

**10.** (1) The Exchequer Court of Canada
may, on the information of the Attorney
General, or at the suit of any person aggrieved
by any omission, without sufficient cause, to
make any entry in the register of timber
marks, or by any entry made or remaining
without sufficient cause in any such register,
make such order for making, expunging or
varying any entry in any such register as the
Court thinks fit ; or the Court may refuse the
application.
(2) In either case the Court may make such
order with respect to the cost of the proceedings
as the Court thinks fit.
(3) The Court may, in any proceeding
under this section, décide any question that
it may be necessary or expédient to décide
for the rectification of any register. R.S., c.
265, s. 10.
jj. (j) The following fees are payable :
  * (_a_) on every application to register a timber
mark, including certificat© $2.00
  * (_b_) for each certifîcate of registration not
already provided for 0.50
  * (_c_) for each copy of any drawing, the reason-
able expenses of preparing the same;
  * (_d_) for recording any assignment 1.00

**14.** (1) Every person, other than the person
.1 • ^ j ^1 l 1
who has registered the same, who marks any
timber of any description with any mark
registered under this Act, or with any part of
such mark, is, on summary conviction before
two justices of the peace, liable, for each
offence, to a penalty not exceeding one
hundred dollars and not less than twenty
dollars, which amount shall be paid to the
proprietor of such mark, together with the
costs incurred in enforcing and recovering the
same.
(2) Every complaint of violation of this
section shall be made by the proprietor of
such timber mark, or by some one acting on
his behalf and thereunto duly authorized.
R.S., c. 265, s. 14.
