
# CHAPTER U-2
An Act respecting unemployment Insurance

## SHORT TITLE
\, This Act maj' be cited as the Unemploy-
ment Insurance Act. 1955, c. 50, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"Advisory Committee" means the Unemploy-
ment Insurance Advisory Committee estab-
lished by this Act ;
"Commission" means the Unemployment
Insurance Commission established by this
Act;
"contribution week" means a week for which
contributions in respect of the earnings of
an insured person during that week are
payable and hâve been paid ;
"employer" includes a person who has been
an employer;
"excepted employment" means employment
specified in section 27 ;
"Fund" means the Unemployment Insurance
Fund established by this Act ;
"inspecter" means a person authorized to act
as an inspecter under this Act ;
"insurable employment" means employment
specified in section 25;
"insured person" means a person who is or
has been employed in insurable employ-
ment ;
"labour dispute" means any dispute between
employers and employées, or between
employées and employées, that is connected
with the employment or non-employment,
or the terms or conditions of employment,
of any persons ;
means the Minister of Labour;
includes a deputy umpire ;
"week" means a period of seven consécutive
days commencing on and including Sunday.
1955, c. 50, s. 2.

## PARTI

## ORGANIZATION
Unemployment Insurance Commission

**3.** (1) There is hereby established a Com-
mission called the Unemployment Insurance
Commission consisting of three Commission-
ers, appointed by the Governor in Council, of
whom one shall be Chief Commissioner.
(2) One Commissioner, other than the Chief
Commissioner, shall be appointed after con-
sultation with organizations représentative of
workers and the other after consultation with
organizations représentative of employers.
(3) The Chief Commissioner shall be
appointed to hold office for a period of ten
years, and each of the other Commissioners
shall be appointed to hold office for a period
not exceeding ten years.
(4) A Commissiouer may be removed by
the Governor in Council at any time for
cause, and a Commissioner ceases to hold
office upon attaining the âge of sixty-five
years.
(5) A Commissioner whose term of office
bas expired is eligible for re-appointment,
and a Commissioner who ceases to hold office
by reason of his having attained the âge of
sixty-five years is eligible for re-appointment
for one or more terms not exceeding one year
each.
(6) In the event of the absence or temporary
incapacity of a Commissioner the Governor
in Council may appoint a person to act in his
stead during such absence or incapacity.
(7) A vacancy on the Commission shall be
filled within a period of four months after
the vacancy arises. 1955, c. 50, s. 3.

**4.** The Commission shall administer this
and shall assume and carry out such other
and responsibilities as the Governor in
on the recommendation of the
Minister, requires and, in respect of such other
duties and responsibilities, is responsible to
the Minister. 1955, c. 50, s. 4.

**5.** (1) Two Commissioners constitute a
quorum and a vacancy on the Commission
does not impair the right of the remaining
Commissioners to act.
(2) The décision of a majority of the
Commissioners présent at any meeting is the
décision of the Commission, and in the event
of a tie the Chief Commissioner has a casting
vote. 1955, c. 50, s. 5.

**6.** (1) The Commission is a body corporate
and is for ail its purposes an agent of Her
Majesty in right of Canada and its powers
under this Act may be exercised only as agent
for Her Majesty.
(2) The Commission may on behalf of Her
Majesty enter into contracts in the name of
Her Majesty or in the name of the Commission.
1955, c. 50, s. 6.

**7.** The Commission has power, for the
purposes of this Act, to acquire, hold and
dispose of personal property. 1955, c. 50, s. 7.

**8.** The head office of the Commission shall
be in the city of Ottawa and each Commis-
sioner shall réside in the city of Ottawa or
within ten miles thereof. 1955, c. 50, s. 8.
9, The Commissioners shall be paid such
salaries as are fixed by the Governor in
Council, and they shall dévote their whole
time to the performance of the duties of their
respective offices. 1955, c. 50, s. 9.
Administration

**10.** The costs of administration of this Act,
including salaries and travelling and other
allowances, shall be paid out of money
appropriated by Parliament. 1955, c. 50, s. 10.

**11.** (1) The Commission shall establish
offices at such places as it considers désirable
for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The Commission may establish such
divisions as it considers désirable,
may establish a régional office within a
division.
(3) An office provided for under subsection
(1) within a régional division may be directed
and controlled by the Commission through
the régional office within that division. 1955,
c. 50, s. 11.

**12.** (1) The officers, clerks and other
employées necessary for the proper conduct
of the business of the Commission shall be
appointed or employed under the Public
Service Employment Ad.
(2) The Commission may temporarily
employ technical or professional staff with
the approval of the Treasury Board. 1955, c.
50, s. 12.

**13.** A person appointed or employed
pursuant to this Act who is authorized by the
Commission for the purpose may, in the
course of his employment, administer oaths
and take and receive affidavits, déclarations
and affirmations for the purposes of or
incidental to the administration or enforce-
ment of this Act or the régulations, and every
person so authorized has, with respect to any
such oath, affidavit, déclaration or affirma-
tion, ail the powers of a commissioner for
taking affidavits. 1955, c. 50, s. 13.
Inspectors

**14.** The Commission may authorize any
person to act as an inspector under this Act.
1955, c. 50, s. 14.
15, The Commission shall furnish every
inspector with a certificate of his authority to
act as an inspector, and on applying for
admission to any premises or place an
inspector shall, if so required, produce the
certificate to the person in charge thereof.
1955, c. 50, s. 15.
Insurance Officers

**16.** The Commission may authorize any
officers or employées appointed or employed
pursuant to this Act to be insurance officers
for the purposes of this Act. 1955, c. 50, s. 16.
Boards of Référées

**17.** (1) There shall be boards of référées,
of one or more members chosen to
represent employers, and an equal number of
members chosen to represent insured persons,
and a chairman.
(2) Chairmen of boards of référées shall be
appointed by the Governor in Council.
(3) Panels of persons chosen to represent
employers and insured persons shall be
established by the Commission, and the
members of the board of référées chosen to
represent employers and insured persons shall
be selected from those panels in such manner
as the régulations made under this section
prescribe.
(4) There shall be paid such rémunération
to the chairman and other members of a
board of référées and such travelling, subsist-
ence and other allowances, including compen-
sation for loss of remunerative time, to a
chairman or member of a board of référées or
to any persons required to attend before the
board, and such other expenses in connection
with the opération of a board of référées as
the Treasury Board approves.
(5) Subject to this section, the Commission
may, with the approval of the Governor in
Council, make régulations for the constitution
of boards of référées, including the appoint-
ment of the members thereof, the number of
members constituting a quorum, and the
practice and procédure for proceedings before
a board of référées. 1955, c. 50, s. 17.
Umpire

**18.** (1) The Governor in Council may,
from among the judges of the Exchequer
Court of Canada and the superior courts of
the provinces of Canada, appoint an umpire
and such number of deputy umpires as he
considers necessary for the purposes of this
Act, and, subject to this Act, may prescribe
their jurisdiction.
(2) The Governor in Council may appoint
persons to act in the place of the umpire in
the event of his absence or incapacity. 1955,
c. 50, s. 18.
Advisory Committee

**19.** (1) There shall be a committee, called
the Unemployment Insurance Advisory Com-
mittee, consisting of a chairman and not less
than six nor more than eight other members,
appointed by the Governor in Council to hold
office during pleasure.
(2) At least one of the members of the
Advisory Committee, other than the chair-
man, shall be appointed after consultation
with organizations représentative of workers
and an equal number after consultation with
organizations représentative of employers.
(3) No senator or member of the House of
Commons and no member of the législative
council or the législative assembly of any
province of Canada is eligible to be a member
of or to act on the Advisory Committee.
(4) In the event of absence or temporary
incapacity of any member of the Advisory
Committee the Governor in Council may
appoint a person to act in his stead during
such absence or incapacity.
(5) A majority of the members of the
Advisory Committee constitutes a quorum,
and a vacancy on the membership of the
Advisory Committee does not impair the
right of the remaining members to act.
(6) The Advisory Committee may make
rules for regulating the practice and procédure
before the Committee.
(7) Each member of the Advisory Commit-
tee shall be paid such rémunération and
travelling allowances in connection with the
work of the Committee as are approved bj'
the Treasury Board.
(8) The Minister may provide the Advisory
Committee with professional, technical,
secretarial and other assistance, but no such
assistance shall be provided otherwise than
from the public service of Canada without
the approval of the Treasury Board.
(9) The Commission shall make available
to the Advisory Committee such information
as the Committee reasonably requires for the
proper discharge of its functions. 1955, c. 50,

**19.**
Investment Committee

**20.** Investment transactions under section
shall be made only on the authorization of
Investment Committee of three members
of
  * (_a_) one member nominated by the Minister,
(6) one member nominated by the Minister
of Finance, and
  * (_c_) the Governor of the Bank of Canada,
or, in the event of his absence or incapacity,
the Deputy Governor or other person having
authority to act as Governor for the time
being. 1955, c. 50, s. 20.

## PART II

## EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Organization of Employment Service
2 1. (1) The Minister of Manpower and
Immigration shall organize and maintain a
national employment service to assist workers
to find suitable employment and employers
to find suitable workers.
(2) It is the duty of the Minister of
Manpower and Immigration in organizing
and maintaining the employment service,
  * (_a_) to collect information concerning
employment for workers and workers seeking
employment and, to the extent he considers
it necessary, to make such information
available at offices of the national employ-
ment service, with a view to assisting
workers to obtain employment for which
they are fitted and assisting employers to
obtain workers most suitable to their needs,
and
(6) to ensure that in referring a worker
seeking employment there is no discrimina-
tion because of race, national origin, colour,
religion or political affiliation, but nothing
in this paragraph shall be construed to
prohibit the national employment service
from giving effect to any limitation,
spécification or préférence based upon a
bona fide occupational qualification.
(3) The régional office within a régional
shall collect and distribute to the
in the division information concerning
(4) The Minister of Manpower and Immi-
gration shall coordinate the services of the
régional offices so that the information
obtained in any division is available to
workers and employers in other divisions.
1955, c. 50, s. 22; 1964-65, c. 34, Sch. B vote
7a; 1966-67, c. 3, Sch. C vote 35d; 1966-67, c.
25, s. 39.
Régulations

**22.** The Minister of Manpower and Immi-
gration may, with the approval of the
Governor in Council, make régulations,
  * (_a_) defining the functions and scope of the
employment service and the principles to
be applied in carrying out the duties of the
said Minister under this Part ; and
(6) for obtaining information respecting
persons seeking employment and persons
who hâve engaged or require employées or
whose employées hâve left or are about to
leave their employment. 1955, c. 50, s. 23;
1959, c. 36, s. 1 ; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 39.

**23.** (1) The Minister of Manpower and
Immigration may make régulations authoriz-
ing advances by way of loan toward meeting
the expenses of workers travelling to places
where employment has been found for them.
(2) An advance made under this section is
a debt due to Her Majesty.
(3) An advance under this section may be
made at the request of the employer or the
worker, and the person on whose application
the advance is made is liable to repay the
advance and give such undertaking with
respect to repayment thereof as the Minister
of Manpower and Immigration by régulation
prescribes.
(4) Advances under this section shall be
made out of money appropriated by Parlia-
ment for that purpose, but any advance or
part thereof repaid in the same fiscal year in
which the advance was made may be again
advanced within that fiscal year without a
further appropriation by Parliament. 1955, c.
50, s. 24; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 39.

**24.** For the purposes of the administration,
and opération of this Part, a
in sections 11, 98, 108, 111 and 112
to the Commission shall be deemed to be a
référence to the Minister of Manpower and
Immigration, and a référence in any of those
sections to employées of the Commission or
to an officer appointed or employed pursuant
to this Act shall be deemed to be a référence
to employées of the Department of Manpower
and Immigration or to an officer of that
Department, as the case may be. [1966-67, c.
25, s. 39].
PART m

## UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Coverage

**25.** Insurable employment is employment
that is not included in excepted employment
and is
  * (_a_) employment in Canada, by one or more
employers, under anj- express or implied
contract of service or apprenticeship.written
or oral, whether the earnings of the
employed person are received from the
employer or some other person and whether
the earnings are reckoned by time or by the
pièce, or partly by time and partly by the
pièce, or otherwise;
(6) emploj-ment in Canada as described in
paragraph (a) under Her Majesty in right
of Canada ; or
  * (_c_) employment included in insurable
employment under section 26. 1955, c. 50, s.
25; 1959, c. 36, s. 2.

**26.** (1) The Commission maj', with the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
régulations for including in insurable employ-
ment,
  * (_a_) any excepted employment ;
(6) any employment outside Canada or
partly outside Canada, being employment
that would be insurable employment if it
were in Canada ;
  * (_c_) the entire employment of a person who
is engaged under one employer partly in
insurable employment and partly in other
employment ; and
  * (_d_) any employment if it appears to the
Commission that the nature of the work
performed by persons employed in that
employment is similar to the nature of the
work performed by persons employed in
insurable employment.
(2) The Commission may make régulations
for including in insurable employment,
  * (_a_) with the consent of the government of
the province, employment in Canada under
Her Majesty in right of a province ;
(6) with the consent of the employing
government, employment in Canada under
the government of any country other than
Canada; and
  * (_c_) with the consent of the employer,
employment in a hospital that is not
operated for the purpose of gain or in a
charitable institution.
(3) An insured person in respect of whom
there are at least thirty contribution weeks
within the period of one hundred and four
weeks immediately preceding the most récent
Sunday before the day on which his employ-
ment became excepted by reason only of
paragraph 27iq) may elect to continue as an
insured person. 1955, c. 50, s. 26.

**27.** Excepted employment is
  * (_a_) employment in agriculture, horticulture
and forestry ;
(6) employment in fishing ;
  * (_c_) employment in hunting and trapping;
  * (_d_) employment in a hospital not carried
on for purpose of gain;
  * (_e_) employment in a charitable institution ;
0) employment as a member of the Canadi-
an Forces ;
  * (_g_) employment as a member of the police
forces of Canada, a province or a munici-
pality;
  * (_h_) employment for which the employed
person is paid for playing any game ;
(0 employment as a teacher, whether
engaged in a school, collège, university or
institution or in a private capacity ;
  * (_j_) employment as a private duty nurse ;
  * (_k_) employment in domestic service except
where the employed person is employed in
a trade or business carried on for the
purpose of gain or is employed in a club;
(0 employment where the person employed
is the husband or wife of the employer ;
  * (_m_) employment for which no wages, salary
or other pecuniary rémunération is paid,
where the person employed is the child of,
or is maintained by, the employer;
  * (_n_) employment by a corporation, of a
person
  * (_i_) who is the bona fide registered owner
of more than half of the shares of the
corporation that carry voting rights, or
  * (_ii_) who is a director and holds the
position of an officer of the corporation,
if such person actually performs the
functions and duties of that position;
  * (_o_) employment as an agent paid by
commission or fées or a share of the profits,
or partly in one and partly in another of
such ways, where the person so employed is
mainly dépendent for his livelihood on bis
earnings from some other occupation, or
where he is ordinarily employed as such
agent by more than one employer and his
employment under no one of such employers
is that on which he is mainlj- dépendent for
his livelihood ;
  * (_p_) employment of a casual nature otherwise
than for the purpose of the employer's trade
or business ;
  * (_q_) employment in one or more employ-
ments at a rate or an aggregate rate of
earnings under which rate the earnings of
the insured person exceed seven thousand
eight hundred dollars a year, other than
  * (_i_) employment at an hourly, daily, pièce
or mileage rate or other rate per unit of
work accomplished or service rendered,
and
  * (_ii_) employment of a person in respect of
whom an élection was made under
subsection 26(3) ;
  * (_r_) employment in Canada under Her
Majesty in right of a province or the
government of any country other than
Canada; and
  * (_s_) any employment excepted from insur-
able employment under section 28. 1955, c.
50, s. 27 ; 1959, c. 36, s. 3 ; 1967-68, c. 33, s. 1.

**28.** (1) The Commission may, with the
of the Governor in Council, make
for excepting from insurable
employment
  * (_a_) any employment if it appears to the
Commission that by reason of the laws of
any country other than Canada a duplica-
tion of contributions or benefits will resuit ;
(6) any employment under Her Majesty in
right of Canada or under any municipal or
public authority ;
  * (_c_) any employment in an area in which
there is inconsiderable insurable employ-
ment ;
  * (_d_) the entire emploj'ment of a person who
is engaged under one employer partly in
insurable employment and partly in other
employment ; and
  * (_e_) any employment, if it appears to the
Commission that the nature of the work
performed by persons emploj'ed in that
employment is similar to the nature of the
work performed by persons employed in
employment that is not insurable.
(2) The Commission may make régulations,
  * (_a_) for excepting from insurable employ-
ment any employment in which persons are
ordinarily employed to an inconsiderable
extent
(6) respecting the time and manner of
making and revoking élections under sub-
section 26(3); and
  * (_c_) for determining or predetermining the
earnings of employed persons for the
purposes of paragraph 27(q). 1955, c. 50, s.
28; 1959, c. 36, s. 4.

**29.** (1) A régulation made under section 26
or 28 may be conditional or unconditional,
qualified or unqualified, and may be gênerai
or restricted to a specified area, a person or a
group or class of persons, and the authority
conferred by those sections to make régulations
includes authority to make such other régula-
tions and with the approval of the Governor
in Council such modifications and adaptations
of the provisions of this Act as are necessary
to give effect to the régulations made under
those sections.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
the régulations made with the approval of
the Governor in Council under section 26 for
including employment in fishing in insurable
employment may, for ail purposes of this Act,
provide for
  * (_a_) including as an insured person any
person who is engaged in fishing (hereinafter
called a "fisherman"), notwithstanding that
such person is not an employée of any other
person ;
  * (_b_) including as an employer of a fisherman
any person with whom the fisherman enters
into contractual or other commercial rela-
tionship in respect of his occupation as a
fisherman ; and
  * (_c_) ail such other matters as are necessary
to provide unemployment insurance for
fishermen. 1955, c. 50, s. 29; 1956, c. 50, s. 1.

**30.** Subject to an appeal to the umpire as
provided in this Act, a décision of the
Commission
  * (_a_) that any employment or any class of
employment is or was insurable, or that a
person is an insured person,
(6) that a person is the employer of any
insured person, or
  * (_c_) that during any period falling within
the periods specified in section 45, a person
was or was not
  * (_i_) employed in employment that was not
insurable,
  * (_ii_) engaged in business on his own
account, or
  * (_iii_) employed in insurable employment
in respect of which contributions were not
payable,
is final and is not subject to appeal to or
review by any court. 1955, c. 50, s. 30 ; 1959, c.
36, s. 5.

**31.** A person aggrieved by a décision of
the Commission under section 30 may appeal
from the décision to the umpire within sixty
days from the day on which the décision is
communicated to him or within such longer
period as the umpire allows. 1955, c. 50, s. 31.

**32.** The Commission or the umpire may
on new facts rescind or amend a décision
given by it or him, as the case may be, under
this Act. 1955, c. 50, s. 32.

**33.** The Commission may refer any ques-
tion mentioned in section 30 to the umpire
décision. 1955, c. 50, s. 33.

**34.** (1) On an appeal from a décision of
the Commission the umpire may direct the
Commission to reconsider or rehear the case
either generally or on any particular issue,
and may withhold his décision pending the
décision of the Commission.
(2) The décision of the umpire on any
appeal under section 31 or a référence under
section 33 is final and is not subject to appeal
to or review by any court. 1955, c. 50, s. 34.
35, jn determining whether any employ-
ment .• IS or was insurable, ii regard jliiuuj shall be had
to the nature of the work rather than to the
business of the employer. 1955, c. 50, s. 35.

**36.** (1) The Commission may make régu-
lations respecting the détermination of the
questions mentioned in section 30.
(2) Any person required by the Commission
or the umpire to attend before the Commission
or the umpire, as the case may be, shall be
paid such travelling and other allowances,
including compensation for loss of remunera-
tive time, as are approved by the Treasury
Board. 1955, c. 50, s. 36.
Contributions

**37.** (1) Every employer shall for every
week during which an insured person is
employed by him in insurable employment
pay, in respect of that person,
  * (_a_) a contribution on behalf of the insured
person equal to the amount set out in
column 2 of the schedule to this section
opposite the range of earnings in column 1
of that schedule within which the earnings
of the insured person from that employer
for that week fall, and
(6) a contribution by the employer on his
own behalf equal to the contribution
payable on behalf of the insured person
under paragraph (a).
employer is not entitled to recover from an
insured person the contributions pa.vable by
the employer on his own behalf, either by
withholding the amount thereof from the
wages of such person or otherwise, except that
where the insured person has continued as an
insured person by virtue of an élection made
under subsection 26(3), recovery may be made
as in the case of contributions on behalf of
insured persons. 1955, c. 50, s. 39.

**40.** (1) Where an employer has withheld
from the wages of an insured person employed
by him the amount of any contribution
payable by the employer on behalf of the
insured person but has not paid the contribu-
tion as required by this Act or the régulations,
the employer shall be deemed to hold the
amount so withheld in trust for Her Majesty.
(2) In the event of any liquidation, assign-
ment or bankruptcy of an employer, an
amount equal to the amount that by subsection
(1) is deemed to be held in trust for Her
Majesty shall be deemed to be separate from
and to form no part of the estate in
liquidation, assignment or bankruptcy.
(3) A payment made by an employer shall
be applied first in payment of the contribu-
tions pa.vable b.v him on behalf of insured
persons employed by him in insurable emploj'-
ment and, secondly, in payment of the
contributions payable bj' him on his own
behalf. 1955, c. 50, s. 40.

**41.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), a décision
of the Commission as to what contributions
are payable in respect of any person or class
of persons is final and is not subject to appeal
to or review by any court.
(2) Sections 31 to 36 apply to any décision
under this section. 1955, c. 50, s. 41.

**42.** The Commission may make régula-
tions,
  * (_a_) for permitting an employer to recover
contributions, paid on behalf of insured
persons, otherwise than from the wages for
the period in respect of which the contribu-
tions were payable ;
  * (_b_) providing that in any case or class of
cases where insured persons
  * (_i_) work under the gênerai control or
direct supervision of or are paid by, some
person other than their actual employer,
or
  * (_ii_) work with the concurrence of some
person other than their actual employer
on premises or property owned or occupied
by that person, or on premises or property
with respect to which that person has any
rights or privilèges under a licence, permit
or agreement,
such other person shall for the purposes of
paying contributions under this Act be
deemed to be the employer of such insured
persons in addition to the actual employer,
and providing for the payment and recovery
of contributions paid in respect of such
insured persons ;
  * (_c_) providing for the return of contributions
erroneously paid, less any benefits paid by
reason thereof
  * (_d_) for allocating to particular insured
persons payments of contributions made by
an employer ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the cases in which contribu-
tions payable may be deemed to hâve been
paid for the purposes of the définition
"contribution week" in section 2;
(/) for defining and determining "earnings"
and "pay period", for the allocation of
earnings and contributions to pay periods
and to weeks, and for calculating and
determining for the purposes of this Part
the number of contribution weeks and the
amount to be taken as the average of the
weekly contributions within any period
during which earnings and contributions
are paid or payable otherwise than in
respect of weeks ;
ig) for establishing and determining the
amount of earnings of insured persons and
the amount of contributions payable ;
{h) prescribing the times when contributions
shall be paid and recorded ;
  * (_i_) for writing-off unpaid contributions;
0) for determining the earnings and contri-
butions paid or payable in respect of one or
more employées of an employer who has
failed to keep books, records or accounts as
required under this Act ; and
{k) providing that contributions are not
payable under this Act where contributions
otherwise payable were not paid by reason
of a false statement or misrepresentation
by an insured person. 1955, c. 50, s. 42; 1959,
c. 36, s. 8.

**43.** (1) The Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
régulations,
  * (_a_) providing for the payment of contribu-
tions by means of stamps affixed to or
impressed upon books or cards or otherwise,
and for the préparation and issue, rédemp-
tion and exchange of such stamps or devices
for impressing stamps ;
  * (_b_) prescribing and regulating the manner
and conditions in and under which contri-
butions shall be paid and recorded ;
  * (_c_) respecting the entry in or upon insurance
books or cards of particulars of contributions
and benefits paid in respect of the persons
to whom the insurance books or cards relate ;
  * (_d_) respecting the issue, sale, custody,
production and surrender of insurance books
or cards and the replacement of insurance
books or cards that hâve been lost, destroyed
or defaced
  * (_e_) providing for the payment of rewards
for the return of lost insurance books or
cards, and for the recovery from the person
responsible for the custody of the book or
card at the time of its loss of any reward
paid for the return thereof ;
(J) for regulating the possession, custody or
control of insurance cards, insurance books,
unemployment insurance stamps or other
documents or things used in the adminis-
tration of this Act ;
  * (_g_) requiring employers to make deposits to
secure payment of contributions ;
  * (_h_) for imposing pecuniary penalties on
employers who fail to make returns or pay
contributions or keep records as required
under this Act and for remitting such
penalties;
(0 for the registration of employées and
employers ; and
0) prescribing contribution rates for periods
other than a week on a basis substantially
équivalent to the rates set out in section 37,
and determining the corresponding weekly
rates of contribution for the purposes of
this Act.
(2) Any penaltics imposed under paragraph
(l)(/i) are payable by employers and recover-
able from employers in the same manner as
contributions, but are not recoverable from
employées and are in addition to any other
penahies imposed by this Act. 1955, c. 50,
s. 43.
Benefits

**44.** Benefits are payable as provided in
this Act in respect of a benefit period
established in respect of an insured person.
1955, c. 50, s. 44.
45, (J) A benefit period in respect of an
insured person is established when, upon
making a claim for benefit, he proves
  * (_a_) that within the period of one hundred
and four weeks immediately preceding the
most récent Sunday before the day on
which he makes the claim he had at least
thirty contribution weeks, and
(6) that at least eight of the contribution
weeks referred to in paragraph (a) were
  * (_i_) in the period of fifty-two weeks
immediately preceding the most récent
Sunday before the day on which he makes
the claim, or
  * (_ii_) in the period since the commencement
of the immediately preceding benefit
period, if any,
whichever is the shorter period.
(2) If an insured person, within the period
specified in paragraph (l)(a), had established
  * (_a_) in the period of fifty-two weeks immedi-
ately preceding the most récent Sunday
before the day on which he makes the
claim, or
  * (_fe_) in the period since the commencement
of the immediately preceding benefit peri-
od,
whichever is the longer period.
(3) Where an insured person proves in the
manner prescribed by régulations of the
Commission that during any period men-
tioned in subsection (1) or (2) contributions
were not payable in respect of him for the
reason that he was for any time
  * (_a_) incapacitated for work by reason of
some spécifie disease or bodily or mental
disablement,
(6) employed in employment that was not
insurable,
  * (_c_) engaged in business on his own account,
  * (_d_) employed in insurable employment in
respect of which contributions were not
payable,
  * (_e_) not working by reason of a stoppage of
work owing to a labour dispute at the place
of his employment, or
if) serving a sentence of imprisonment in
any gaol, penitentiary or other place of
confinement,
that period shall, for the purposes of this
section and sections 47 and 48, be increased
by the aggregate of any such times.
(4) Where an insured person proves in the
manner prescribed by régulations of the
Commission that during any increase to a
period mentioned in subsection (3) contribu-
tions were not payable in respect of him for
any of the reasons specified in subsection (3),
that period shall, for the purposes of this
section and sections 47 and 48, be further
increased by the aggregate of those times
during which contributions were not payable.
(5) For the purposes of subsections (3) and
(4), the time during which contributions were
not payable does not include any time during
which the insured person was in receipt of
benefit or seasonal benefit.
  * (_g_) The aggregate of any period and the
increases made to that period under this
shall not exceed two hundred and
weeks.
(7) In Computing the number of contribu-
tion weeks and the average of weekly
contributions for any purpose under this Act,
a contribution week during which the earnings
of an insured person were less than twentj'
dollars shall be counted as one-half. 1955, c.
50, s. 45; 1956, c. 50, s. 2; 1959, c. 36, s. 9;
1967-68, c. 33, s. 3.

**46.** (1) Subject to this section, a benefit
period in respect of an insured person is a
period of fifty-two weeks commencing with
and including the week in which the benefit
period was established.
(2) A benefit period does not commence
until the previdus benefit period, if any, bas
terminated.
(3) Where RU insured person makes a claim
for benefit on a day later than the day he
was first qualified to make the claim and
shows good cause for the delay, the claim
may, as prescribed by régulation of the
Commission, be regarded as having been
made on a day earlier than the day on which
it was made.
(4) Where a benefit period bas been estab-
lished in respect of an insured person but
benefit is not payable or bas not been paid in
respect of that benefit period, the benefit
period may, as prescribed by régulation of
the Commission, be regarded as not having
commenced.
(5) A benefit period is terminated
  * (_a_) when the insured person exhausts his
benefit rights with respect thereto prior to
the time it would otherwise expire, or
(6) undeï such circumstances as are pre-
scribed by régulations made by the Com-
mission. 1955, c. 50, s. 46; 1959, c. 36, s. 10.

**47.** (1) Where the average of the weekly
contributions of an insured person is within a
range of average weekly contributions set out
in column 1 of the schedule to this subsection,
the weekly rate of benefit for a benefit period
established in respect of that person is the
rate set out opposite to such range in column
2 of that schedule if he has no dépendant or
in column 3 of that schedule if he has a
dépendant.

## SCHEDULE
RATES OF BENEFIT
Range of Average
Weekly Contributions
  * (_i_) a man whose wife is being maintained
wholly or mainly by him,
  * (_ii_) a married woman who bas a husband
dépendent on her,
  * (_iii_) a person who maintains wholly or
mainly one or more children under the
âge of sixteen years, and
  * (_iv_) a person who maintains a self-
contained domestic establishment and
supports therein, wholly or mainly, a
person connected with him by blood
relationship, marriage or adoption;
(6) a child means a child of the insured
person and includes bis stepchild, adopted
child or illegitimate child; and
  * (_c_) a person who does not réside in Canada
is not a dépendant, except as otherwise
prescribed by régulations made by the
Commission. 1955, c. 50, s. 47 ; 1959, c. 36, s.
11; 1967-68, c. 33, s. 4.

**48.** (1) No person shall, in respect of any
benefit period, be paid benefits in excess of
  * (_a_) fifty-two times the weekly rate applica-
ble to him, or
  * (_b_) the weekly rate applicable to him
multiplied by one-half of the number of his
contribution weeks
  * (_i_) within the period described in para-
graph 45(l)(a), in the case of a person to
whom subsection (2) of that section does
not apply, or
  * (_ii_) within the longer of the periods
described in paragraphs 45(2)(a) and (b),
in the case of a person to whom that
subsection applies,
whichever is the lesser amount.
(2) Where one-half of the number of the
contribution weeks referred to in paragraph
(1)(6) results in a fraction, the fraction shall
be taken as one. 1955, c. 50, s. 48; 1956, c. 50,
s. 3; 1959, c. 36, s. 12.

**49.** Seasonal benefits are payable as pro-
vided in this Act in respect of a seasonal
benefit period established in respect of an
insured person who does not meet the
of subsection 45(1). 1955, c. 50,

**49.**

**50.** A seasonal benefit period in respect of
an insured person is estabiished when, upon
making a claim for benefit during or after the
week in which the Ist day of December falls
but before the end of the week in which the
15th day of May next following falls, he
proves that he is
  * (_a_) a person who had at least fifteen
contribution weeks subséquent to the most
récent Saturday preceding the 31st day of
March immediately before the daj' on which
he makes the daim, or
(6) a person who does not meet the
requirements of paragraph (a) and whose
most récent benefit period terminated after
the week in which fell the 15th day of May
immediately preceding the da.y on which
he makes the claim, and who has complied
with such other conditions as are prescribed
bj- régulations made by the Commission
with the approval of the Governor in
Council. 1957-58, c. 8, s. 1 ; 1959, c. 36, s. 13.
5 1. A seasonal benefit period in respect of
an insured person is the period commencing
with and including the week in which the
seasonal benefit period in relation to him was
estabiished and ending with and including
the week in which the 15th day of Maj' next
following falls. 1957-58, c. 8, s. 1.

**52.** Not more than one seasonal benefit
period may be estabiished in respect of an
insured person during the period commencing
with and including the week in which the Ist
day of December falls and ending with and
including the week in which the 15th day of
May next following falls. 1957-58, c. 8, s. 1.

**53.** (1) Subject to this section, ail the
provisions of this Act respecting benefit
periods and benefits apply in respect of
seasonal benefit periods and seasonal benefits
respectively, except section 44, subsections
45(1),(3),{4),{5) and (6), 46(1), 47(2), section 48,
and paragraph 50(6).
(2) For the purposes of subsection 47(1)
  * (_a_) the average of the weekly contributions
of a person coming within paragraph 50(a)
is the average of the weekly contributions
paid on his behalf under paragraph 37(l)(a)
for the contribution weeks subséquent to
the Saturday referred to in paragraph 50(a),
and
(6) the benefit rate of a person coming
within paragraph 50(6) is his benefit rate
for the benefit period referred to in
paragraph 50(6).
(3) A person coming within paragraph 50(a)
shall not be paid seasonal benefits in excess
of the lesser of
  * (_a_) the weekly rate applicable to him
multiplied by the number of weeks in his
seasonal benefit period, and
(6) the weekly rate applicable to him
multiplied by the greater of
  * (_i_) thirteen, and
  * (_ii_) five-sixths of the number of his
contribution weeks subséquent to the
Saturday referred to in paragraph 50(a).
(4) YoT the purposes of subparagraph (3)(6)
(ii), where five-sixths of the number of the
contribution weeks therein referred to results
in a fraction, a fraction of less than one-half
shall be disregarded and a fraction of one-
half or more shall be taken as one.
(5) A person coming within paragraph 50(6)
shall not be paid seasonal benefits in excess
of
  * (_a_) the weeklj" rate applicable to him
multiplied by the number of weeks in his
seasonal benefit period, or
(6) the weekly rate applicable to him
multiplied by the number by which the
weekly rate applicable to him in respect of
his most récent benefit period was multiplied
in order to ascertain his maximum benefit
under section 48 with respect to that period,
whichever is the lesser amount. 1955, c. 50, s.
53 ; 1956, c. 50, s. 4 ; 1957-58. c. 8, s. 2.

**54.** (1) Subject tothis Act, where an insured
person in respect of whom a benefit period
has been established proves that he was
unemployed during any week in the benefit
period, he is entitled to be paid benefit in
respect of his unemployment during that
week at the weekly rate applicable to him
under section 47.
(2) An insured person is disqualified from
receiving benefit in respect of every day for
which he fails to prove that he was
  * (_a_) capable of and available for work, and
(6) unable to obtain suitable employment.
1955, c. 50, s. 54.

**55.** Except as othenvise prescribed by
régulation of the Commission, an insured
person is not entitled to receive benefit in
respect of a benefit period until the expiration
of a waiting period commencing with the day
on which the benefit period was established
and ending on the day that, but for this
section, benefits in respect of that benefit
period equal to the weekly benefit rate would
hâve accrued. 1955, c. 50, s. 55; 1957-58, c. 8,
s. 3.

**56.** There shall be deducted from the
weekly benefit of an insured person
  * (_a_) if he has no dépendant, the amount of
his weekly earnings in excess of the amount
set out in column 2 of the schedule to this
section opposite his weekly benefit rate in
column 1 of that schedule, or
  * (_b_) if he has a dépendant, the amount of
his weekly earnings in excess of the amount
set out in column 4 of the schedule to this
section opposite his weekly benefit rate in
column 3 of that schedule.

## SCHEDULE
Weekly
Benefits

**57.** (j) For the purposes of this Act, a
is unemployed during a week if he
not work a full working week.
(2) No person is unemployed during a week
by reason only that he does not work
  * (_a_) on a Sunday, unless the Commission by
régulation otherwise prescribes;
(6) on a holidaj' or non-working day for his
grade, class or shift in the occupation or at
the factory, workshop or other premises at
which he is employed, unless otherwise
prescribed by régulations made by the
Commission; or
  * (_c_) on any day of a week during which he
Works the full working week.
(3) Por the purposes of this Act, an insured
person
  * (_a_) is unemployed and available for work
during any period he is attending a course
of instruction or training that the Commis-
sion bas directed him to attend, and
(6) is unemployed or available for work, or
both unemployed and available for work,
during such other period in such circum-
stances as are prescribed by régulations of
the Commission. 1955, c. 50, s. 57; 1959, c.
36, s. 15.

**58.** Benefits are not capable of being
assigned, charged, attached, anticipated or
given as security and any transaction pur-
porting to assign, charge, attach, anticipate
or give as security any benefits is void, except
that any amounts payable under this Act by
anj' person and required to be credited to the
Fund may be recovered out of any benefits
payable to that person, without préjudice to
any other mode of recovery. 1955, c. 50, s. 58.
59, (j) ^.n insured person is disqualified
from receiving benefit if he has without good
cause,
  * (_a_) after becoming aware that a situation
in suitable employment is vacant or about
to become vacant, refused or failed to apply
for such situation or failed to accept such
situation when offered to him ;
(6) neglected to avail himself of an oppor-
tunity of suitable employment ;
  * (_c_) failed to carry out any written direction
given tohim by an officerofthe Commission
with a view to assisting him to find suitable
employment, being a direction that was
reasonable having regard both to bis
circumstances and to the usual means of
obtaining that employment ; or
  * (_d_) failed to attend a course of instruction
or training that the Commission directed
him to attend for the purpose of becoming
or keeping fit for entry into- or return to
employment.
(2) For the purposes of this section, but
subject to subsection (3), employment is not
suitable employment for a claimant if it is
  * (_a_) employment arising in conséquence of
a stoppage of work attributable to a labour
dispute;
(6) employment in his usual occupation
either at a lower rate of earnings or on
conditions less favourable than those
observed by agreement between employers
and employées, or in the absence of any
such agreement, than those recognized by
good employers ; or
  * (_c_) employment of a kind other than
employment in his usual occupation either
at a lower rate of earnings or on conditions
less favourable than those that he might
reasonably expect to obtain, having regard
to those that he habitually obtained in his
usual occupation, or would hâve obtained
had he continued to be so employed.
(3) After a lapse of a reasonable interval
from the date on which an insured person
becomes unemployed, paragraph (2)(c) does
not apply to the employment described
therein if it is employment at a rate of
earnings not lower and on conditions not less
favourable than those observed by agreement
between employées and employers or, in the
absence of any such agreement, than those
recognized by good employers. 1955, c. 50,

**59.**

**60.** (1) An insured person is disqualified
from receiving benefit if he lost his employ-
ment by reason of his own misconduct or if
not include loss of emploj'ment on account of
membership in, or lawful activity connected
with, any association, organization or union
of workers. 1955, c. 50, s. 60.

**61.** Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
no insured person is disqualified from receiv-
ing benefit by reason only of his leaving or
refusing to accept employment if by remaining
in or accepting the employment he would lose
the right
  * (_a_) to become a member of,
(6) to continue to be a member and to
observe the lawful rules of, or
  * (_c_) to refrain from becoming a member of
any association, organization or union of
workers. 1955, c. 50, s. 61.

**62.** Where an insured person is disqualified
from receiving benefit under section 59 or 60,
the period of disqualification shall be forsuch
period, not exceeding six weeks, as is
determined by the Insurance officer, board of
référées or umpire. 1955, c. 50, s. 62.

**63.** (1) An insured person who bas lost his
employment by reason of a stoppage of work
attributable to a labour dispute at the factory,
workshop or other premises at which he was
emploj'ed, is disqualified from receiving
benefit until
  * (_a_) the termination of the stoppage of work,
(6) he becomes 6orîa/îcfeemployed elsewhere
in the occupation that he usually follows,
or
  * (_c_) he bas become regularly engaged in
some other occupation,
whichever event first occurs.
(2) An insured person is not disqualified
under this section if he proves that
  * (_a_) he is not participating in, or financing
or directly interested in the labour dispute
that caused the stoppage of work, and
(6) he does not belong to a trade or class of
workers that, immediately before the com-
mencement of the stoppage, included mem-
bers who were employed at the premises at
which the stoppage is taking place and are
participating in, financing or directly
interested in the dispute.
(3) Where separate branches of work that
are commonly carried on as separate businesses
in separate premises are carried on in separate
departments on the same premises, each
department shall, for the purpose of this
section, be deemed to be a separate factory or
workshop. 1955, c. 50, s. 63.

**64.** An insured person is disqualified from
receiving benefit while he is an inmate of any
prison or penitentiary or an institution
supported wholly or partly out of public
funds or, while he is résident, whether
temporarilj' or permanently, out of Canada,
unless otherwise prescribed by régulations
made by the Commission. 1955, c. 50, s. 64.
^g. (j) Where an iusurance officer becomes
aware of facts that in his opinion establish
that an insured person or any person on his
behalf has committed an offence against
section 107, the insurance officer rnny déclare
the insured person to be disqualified from
receiving benefits after such day as the
insurance officer may détermine, in such
amount as the insurance officer may fix but
not exceeding six times the insured person's
weekly rate of benefit, and the amount so
fixed shall be deducted
  * (_a_) from the first benefits otherwise payable
to the insured person after such day, and
(6) from the maximum benefits prescribed
by section 48 or 53, as the case may be.
(2) No déclaration shall be made under
subsection (1) in any case where in the opinion
of an insurance officer any person has
committed an offence against section 107, if
a prosecution for that offence has been
instituted against that person. 1959, c. 36,
s. 16.

**66.** No person who has become entitled to
receive benefit and subsequently, while he
otherwise continues to be so entitled, becomes
incapable of work by reason of illness, injury
or quarantine, is disqualified from recei%'ing
benefit by reason only of such illness, injury
or quarantine, but an insured person who has
his emploj'ment or has ceased to work by
of illness, injury or quarantine is
from receiving benefit for the
of the illness, injurv or quarantine.
1955, c. 50, s. 66.

**67.** (1) The Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
régulations,
  * (_a_) providing for the payment of benefit to
any person or agency on behalf of deceased
or incapacitated persons or persons of
unsound mind ;
(6) for taking into account in determining
benefit rights, contributions erroneously
paid;
  * (_c_) imposing additional conditions and
terms with respect to contributions and the
payment thereof and with respect to the
receipt of benefit, restricting the amount or
period of benefit and making modifications
in the provisions of this Act relating to the
détermination of claims for benefit, in
relation to persons
  * (_i_) who habitually work for less than a
full working week,
  * (_ii_) who work or hâve worked for only
part of a year in an industry or occupation
that the Commission déclares to be
seasonal,
  * (_iii_) who by custom of their occupation,
trade or industry or pursuant to their
agreement with an employer are paid, in
whole or in part, by the pièce or on a
basis other than time, or
  * (_iv_) who are married women.
(2) Régulations made under paragraph
(l)(c) shall be reported on by the Advisory
Committee before they are made and may be
applicable
  * (_a_) either generally or in a specified area ;
and
[b) to ail classes to which paragraph (l)(c)
applies or one or more of them, to a
particular class or a portion of a class or to
an industry or a portion of an industry.
(3) f^e Commission may make régulations,
  * (_a_) for the ratification or writing-off of
amounts paid to a person by way of benefit
while he was not entitled thereto;
{b) for defining "adopted child" and the
working week in any employment. 1955, c.
50, s. 67.
Claim Procédure

**68.** Ail claims for benefit and ail questions
arisiug in connection therewith shall be
submitted to an insurance officer. 1955, c. 50,
s. 68.
59, (j) An insurance officer shall consider
any claim submitted to him under section 68
and
  * (_a_) if he is of opinion that a benefit period
bas been established, he shall so déclare, or
(6) if he is of opinion that a benefit period
bas not been established, he shall
  * (_i_) déclare that a benefit period bas not
been established on the ground that one
or more of the requirements of this Act
bave not been complied with, or
  * (_ii_) refer the claim, if practicable within
fourteen days from the day on which the
claim was submitted to him, to the board
of référées for its décision.
(2) Notwithstanding that a benefit period
bas been established, if the insurance officer
is not satisfied that the claimant has fulfilled
ail the other conditions of qualification for
benefit or if he is of the opinion that the
claimant isdisqualified from receiving benefit,
he shall
  * (_a_) déclare the claimant to be disqualified
from receiving benefit for such days as he
may détermine, on the ground that
  * (_i_) the claimant is disqualified under this
Act, or
  * (_ii_) the claimant does not fulfil one or
more of any of the conditions or require-
ments of this Act or the régulations, or
(6) refer the claim, if practicable within
fourteen days from the day on which the
claim was submitted to him, to the board
of référées for its décision.
(3) Where a claimant has been declared
under paragraph (2)(a) for any
days, there shall be deducted from the benefits
payable to him in respect of the
week in which such days fall, an amount
equal to one-sixth of the product obtained by
multiplying the total number of such days in
the week by the weekly rate of benefit
applicable to that person under section 47,
but if the amount so calculated is not a
multiple of one dollar, fractions of a dollar
less than one-half shall be disregarded and
fractions of a dollar equal to or greater than
one-half shall be taken as a full dollar. 1955,
c. 50, s. 69.

**70.** The claimant may at any time within
thirty days from the day on which the décision
of an Insurance officer is communicated to
him, or within such further time as the
Commission may in any particular case for
spécial reasons allow, appeal to the board of
référées in the manner prescribed by régula-
tions of the Commission. 1955, c. 50, s. 70.

**71.** A décision of a board of référées shall
be recorded in writing and shall include a
statement of the findings of the board on
questions of fact material to the décision.
1955, c. 50, s. 71.

**72.** An appeal lies to the umpire in the
manner prescribed by régulations of the
Commission from any décision of a board of
référées as follows :
  * (_a_) at the instance of an insurance officer,
in any case ;
(6) at the instance of an association of
workers of which the claimant is a member,
in any case ; or
  * (_c_) at the instance of the claimant
  * (_i_) without leave in any case in which the
décision of the board of référées is not
unanimous, and
  * (_ii_) with the leave of the chairman of the
board of référées in any other case. 1955,
c. 50, s. 72.
73, (1) An application for leave to appeal
from a décision of a board of référées may be
made bj- the claimant in such form, and
within such time not less than thirty days
after the day the décision is communicated to
him, as is prescribed in régulations made by
Commission, and an application for leave
appeal shall be granted by the chairman if
it appears to him that there is a principle of
importance involved in the case or there are
other spécial circumstances by reason of which
leave to appeal ought to be granted.
(2) Where the chairman of a board of
référées grants leave to appeal to the umpire
from the décision of the board, the chairman
shall include in the record a statement of the
grounds on which leave to appeal is granted.
1955, c. 50, s. 73.

**74.** For the purposes of paragraph 72(6) a
claimant for benefit is not, in relation to any
appeal, a member of anj' association of
workers unless he was a member thereof on
the last day on which he was employed before
the claim that is the subject of the appeal was
made and has continued to be a member
thereof until the day when the appeal is
made ; and the question whether an association
is or is not an association of workers for the
purposes of this section shall be decided by
the umpire. 1955, c. 50, s. 74.

**75.** An appeal from a décision of a board
of référées must be brought within sixty days
of the day the décision is communicated to
the claimant or such longer period as the
umpire may in any case for spécial reasons
allow. 1955, c. 50, s. 75.

**76.** On an appeal from a décision of a
board of référées the umpire may direct the
board of référées to reconsider or rehear the
case either generally or on any particular
issue, and maj- withhold his décision pending
the décision of the board of référées. 1955, c.
50, s. 76.

**77.** The décision of the umpire on an
appeal from a décision of a board of référées
is final and is not subject to appeal to or
review by any court. 1955, c. 50, s. 77.

**78.** Where, on an appeal to the umpire
from a décision of a board of référées, a
person affected by the décision is requested
by the umpire to attend before him on the
considération of the appeal and so attends,
he shall be paid such travelling and other
allowances, including compensation for loss
remunerative time, as are approved by the
Board. 1955, c. 50, s. 78.

**79.** An Insurance officer, a board of référées
the umpire may on new facts rescind or
amend a décision given in any particular
claim for benefit. 1955, c. 50, s. 79.

**80.** (1) Where a claim for benefit is allowed
by a board of référées, benefit is payable in
accordance with the décision of the board
notwithstanding that an appeal to the umpire
is pending, and any benefit paid in pursuance
of this section after the décision of the board
of référées shall be treated, notwithstanding
that the final détermination of the question
is adverse to the claimant, as having been
duly paid, and is not recoverable from the
claimant.
(2) Subsection (1) does not appl}'
  * (_a_) if the appeal was brought within twenty-
one days of the day on which the décision
of the board of référées was given and on
the ground that the claimant ought to be
disqualified under section 63, and
(6) in such other cases as the Commission
by régulation prescribes. 1955, c. 50, s. 80.

**81.** (1) In this Act références to claims for
benefit shall be construed as including
références to questions arising in relation to
such claims, and références to action on a
claim shall be construed as including référ-
ences to determining a question in favour of
or adversely to a claimant.
(2) If in the considération of any claim for
benefit any question specified in section 30 or
41 arises, that question shall be decided b}'
the Commission as provided in those sections.
1955, c. 50, s. 81.
Régulations

**82.** The Commission may make régula-
tions,
  * (_a_) respecting the proof of fulfilment of the
conditions and the absence of the disqualifi-
cations for receiving or continuing to receive
benefit, and for that purpose requiring the
attendance of insured persons at such offices
or places and at such times as maj' be
required ;
(6) for prescribing the manner in which
claims for benefit may be made and the
procédure to be followed for the considéra-
tion and examination of claims and ques-
tions to be considered bj- insurance officers,
boards of référées, and the umpire, and the
mode in which any question may be raised
as to the continuation of benefit in the case
of a person in receipt of benefit ;
  * (_c_) with respect of the payment of contri-
butions and benefits during any period
intervening between an application for the
détermination of a question or a daim for
benefit and the final détermination of the
question or claim ;
  * (_d_) prescribing the time and manner of
payment of benefits;
  * (_e_) for determining on which day a person
was employed or unemployed where a
period of employment that began on one
day extends over midnight into another
day ; and
if) to provide, with the concurrence of the
Postmaster General, for enabling claimants
for benefit in certain places to make their
claims for benefit through the Post Office,
and for the payment of benefit to claimants
through the Post Office. 1955, c. 50, s. 82.
Unemployment Insurance Fund

**83.** There shall be a fund, called the
Unemployment Insurance Fund, for the
accôunt of which there shall be credited in
the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
  * (_a_) the contributions made under this Act
on behalf of insured persons;
(6) the contributions made under this Act
by employers of insured persons ;
  * (_c_) an amount equal to one-fifth of each of
the amounts mentioned in paragraphs (a)
and (6) at the time those amounts are
credited ; and
  * (_d_) the amounts paid under paragraph
43(1)(^) and section 103. 1955, c. 50, s. 83;
1959, c. 36, s. 17.

**84.** (1) Subject to this Act, the Minister of
cause to be paid out of the Con-
Revenue Fund benefits and refunds
of contributions as provided by this Act and
the costs of the opérations under section 86.
(2) Ail payments made out of the Con-
solidated Revenue Fund under subsection (1),
plus an amount equal to one-fifth of the
refunds of contributions, shall be charged to
the Unemployment Insurance Fund.
(3) No payment shall be made out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund under this
section in excess of the amounts standing to
the crédit of the Unemployment Insurance
Fund in the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
1955, c. 50, s. 84.

**85.** (1) To the extent that there are
amounts standing to the crédit of the
Unemployment Insurance Fund in the Con-
solidated Revenue Fund not currently
required for the purposes of this Act, the
Minister of Finance shall, on the réquisition
of the Commission, purchase obligations of,
or guaranteed by, the Government of Canada
and provide for their payment out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(2) Payments made out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund pursuant to subsection (1)
shall be charged to the Unemployment
Insurance Fund.
(3) The interest on the obligations pur-
chased under this section and the proceeds of
the sale thereof shall be credited to the
Unemployment Insurance Fund.
(4) Obligations purchased under this section
are assets of the Unemployment Insurance
Fund.
(5) Obligations purchased under this SBction
shall be held by the Bank of Canada and are
subject to the inspection of the Auditor
General of Canada. 1955, c. 50, s. 85.
g^. (1) Where the amounts standing to the
crédit of the Unemployment Insurance Fund
in the Consolidated Revenue Fund are not
sufficient for the payment of benefits under
this Act, the Minister of Finance, on the
réquisition of the Commission, may,
  * (_a_) obtain advances from the Bank of
Canada on the security of the obligations
acquired under section 85 not exceeding the
par value of the obligations secured, and
crédit to the Unemployment Insurance
Fund an amount equal to those advances,
or
(6) on the security of such obligations,
crédit further amounts to the Unemploy-
ment Insurance Fund not exceeding the par
value of the obligations secured, on such
terms and conditions as the Governor in
Council détermines.
(2) The Minister of Finance shall, on the
réquisition of the Commission,
  * (_a_) repay to the Bank of Canada out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund, the amount
of any advances made under paragraph
(l)(a), and the amounts so repaid shall be
charged to the Unemployment Insurance
Fund, and
(6) charge to the Unemployment Insurance
Fund an amount equal to the amount
secured by obligations under paragraph
(1)(6). 1955, c. 50, s. 86.

**87.** The Minister of Finance shall report
annually to Parliament the state of the Fund
as of the 31st day of March last preceding
and the transactions under section 86 during
the fiscal year ending on that day; and the
opérations of the Fund shall be set out in the
Public Accounts in such détail as the Minister
of Finance may décide. 1955, c. 50, s. 87.

**88.** The powers of the Bank of Canada
include the power to do the things required
to be done bj- it under sections 85 and 86.
1955, c. 50, s. 88.

**89.** (1) Within four months after the end
of each fiscal year the Advisory Committee
shall make a report to the Governor in
Council on the financial condition of the
Fund as of the end of that fiscal year and
shall also make a report to the Governor in
Council on the financial condition of the
Fund whenever the Advisory Committee
considers that the Fund is or is likely to
become, and is likely to continue to be,
insufficient to discharge its liabilities, and
make a report on the financial condition
the Fund at such other times as the
Committee may think fit.
(2) Where the Advisory Committee at any
time reports that the Fund is or is likely to
become, and is likely to continue to be,
insufficient to discharge its liabilities, or is
and is likely to continue to be more than
reasonably sufficient to discharge its liabili-
ties, the report shall contain recommendations
for such amendments of this Act or the
régulations as the Advisory Committee con-
siders appropriate, and an estimate of the
effect that the amendments recommended
will hâve on the financial condition of the
Fund. 1955, c. 50, s. 89.

**90.** (1) The Advisory Committee shall give
such public notice as it considers sufficient of
its intention to make a report under section
89 and shall receive any représentations that
may be made to it with respect thereto.
(2) The Minister shall lay every report
made under section 89 before Parliament
within thirty days after it was submitted to
the Governor in Council, or if Parliament is
not then sitting, on any of the first thirty
days thereafter that Parliament is sitting.
1955, c. 50, s. 90.

## PART IV

## GENERAL
Investigations
9 1. (1) Whenever the Governor in Council,
after consultation with the Commission,
considers it expédient to do so, he may direct
the Advisory Committee to investigate and
to report upon
  * (_a_) the provision of unemployment Insur-
ance for any excepted employments, either
by extending thereto the provisions of Part
III, with such modifications, if any, as may
be found necessary, or by spécial or
supplementary schemes, and
(6) the rates of contribution and benefit of
insured persons having regard to the
earnings of such persons.
(2) The Commission may from time to time
refer to the Advisory Committee for consid-
and advice such matters relating to
Act as the Commission thinks fit. 1955, c.
s. 91.

**92.** The Governor in Council may direct
the Commission to investigate and report
upon ail questions that the Governor in
Council deems advisable or necessarv. 1955, c.
50, s. 92.

**93.** (1) For the purposes of any investiga-
tions undertaken by the Commission under
this Act, the Commission has the powers of a
commissioner under the Inquiries Act.
(2) The Commission shall give such public
notice as it considers sufficient of its intention
to investigate any matters that under this Act
it is empowered to investigate, and it shall
receive représentations submitted to it by
persons or associations of persons appearing
to the Commission to hâve an interest in the
matters under investigation. 1955, c. 50, s. 93.
Reports

**94.** Ail reports, recommendations and sub-
missions required to be made under this Act
to the Governor in Council, whether by the
Commission or by the Advisory Committee,
shall be submitted through the Minister. 1955,
c. 50, s. 94.

**95.** (1) Within three months after the end
of each fiscal year or within such longer
period as is approved by the Governor in
Council, the Commission shall submit to the
Minister a report covering the business and
affairs of the Commission for that fiscal year
in such détail as the Minister may direct.
(2) The Minister shall lay before Parliament
an}' report made under subsection (1) within
fifteen days after it is submitted to him, or if
Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the
first fifteen days next thereafter that Parlia-
ment is sitting. 1955, c. 50, s. 95.
Information and Retums

**96.** (1) An inspecter may enter at ail
reasonable times any premises or place where
he reasonably believes insured persons are or
were employed and make such examination
and inquiry as maj' be necessary for ascer-
whether the provisions of this Act are
or hâve been complied with in any such
or place.
(2) The following persons, namely,
  * (_a_) the occupier of any premises or place
that an inspector is by subsection (1)
authorized to enter, every person found
therein, and the servants and agents of such
occupier,
(6) any person who is considered by an
inspector on reasonable grounds to be an
employer, the servants and agents of such
person, and trustées in bankruptcy, adminis-
trators or liquidators concerned with such
person's estate, and
  * (_c_) any person who is or has been employed
by any person mentioned in paragraph (a)
or (b),
shall forthwith, upon so being requested bv
an inspector, whether oraliy or in writing,
produce to the inspector, or any person
designated by the inspector, any registers,
books, cards, wage sheets, records of wages,
ledgers, accounts or any other documents
requested by the inspector, and shall furnish
to the inspector or any person designated bj'
the inspector ail such information with respect
to the administration of this Act as the
inspector requests.
(3) A person who is considered by an
inspector on reasonable grounds to be an
employer shall forthwith upon being requested
so to do by the inspector furnish to hira such
proof as is prescribed by régulations made by
the Commission of the amount of unemploy-
ment insurance stamps lawfully in bis posses-
sion at the commencement and at the end of
any period specified by the inspector, the
amount of such stamps lawfully purchased by
him during the period and the amount of
contributions paid by him otherwise during
that period.
(4) For the purposes of subsections (3) and
(5) the contributions paid by any person
during a period means the amount by which
the aggregate value of
  * (_a_) the unemployment insurance stamps
lawfully in the possession of that person at
the commencement of the period,
(6) the unemployment insurance stamps
lawfully purchased by him during the
period, and
unemployment insurance stamps
exceeds the aggregate value of
  * (_d_) the unemployment insurance stamps
lawfully in his possession at the end of the
period, and
  * (_e_) the unemployment insurance stamps
lost, stolen or destroyed or refunded to him
by the Commission during the period.
(5) The inspector may détermine that the
amount by which the contributions payable
by any person during a period exceed the
contributions paid during that period is the
amount of contributions that such person
failed or neglected to pay, and the amount so
determined shall prima facie be deemed to be
due and owing by such person. 1955, c. 50,
s. 96.

**97.** (1) The Commission may require any
person to keep such books, records and
accounts as the Commission directs and may
require any person to make written returns of
information deemed by the Commission to be
necessary for the purposes of this Act, and
failure to comply with any such direction or
requirement is an offence against this Act.
(2) The powers and functions of the Com-
mission under this section may be exercised
by any officer appointed pursuant to this Act
and authorized in that behalf by gênerai or
spécial directions of the Commission.
(3) No person shall, with intent to évade
any of the provisions of this Act or the
régulations, destroy, alter, mutilate or secrète
any records or books or make or counsel or
procure the making of any false or fraudulent
entries in records or books, or omit or concur
in omitting to enter any material particular
in records or books. 1955, c. 50, s. 97.

**98.** Information, written or verbal,
obtained by the Commission from any person
pursuant to this Act or any régulation shall
be made available only to employées of the
Commission in the course of their employment
and such other persons as the Commission
deems advisable, and neither the Commission
nor any of its employées is compellable to
answer any question concerning such infor-
documents containing such information as
in any proceedings not directly
concerned with the enforcement or interpré-
tation of this Act or the régulations. 1955, c.
50, s. 98.
Régulations

**99.** (1) The Commission may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, make
régulations
  * (_a_) governing the référence for considéra-
tion and advice of questions bearing upon
the administration of this Act to the
committees provided for in this Act ;
(6) for requiring employers to answer inquir-
ies relating to any matters on which the
fulfilment of the conditions or the absence
of the disqualifications for receiving or
continuing to receive benefits dépends ;
  * (_c_) for requiring persons to keep and make
available books, records, accounts and other
documents and to furnish information and
make returns for the purpose of this Act ;
and
  * (_d_) generally for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect.
(2) The Commission may make régulations
prescribing anything that by this Act is to be
prescribed by régulations of the Commission.
1955, c. 50, s. 99.
Audit

**100.** The accounts of the Commission are
subject to the applicable provisions of the
Financial Administration Act. 1955, c. 50, s.

**100.**
Reciprocal Arrangements

**101.** The Commission, with the approval
of the Governor in Council, may, notwith-
standing anything in this Act, enter into
agreements with the governments of other
countries to establish reciprocal arrangements
on matters relating to unemployment insur-
ance. 1955, c. 50, s. 101.
neglect of any person to comply with this Act
or the régulations, any other person loses the
right to daim, in whole or in part, any benefit
to which he would otherwise be entitled under
this Act, the Commission may nevertheless
pay the benefit. 1955, c. 50, s. 102.

**103.** (1) Where a person has received
money by way of benefit for any period in
respect of which he is disqualified or any
money by way of benefit to which he is not
entitled, he is liable to repay an amount
equal to the money so received by him.
(2) A person is not liable to make a
repayment under subsection (1) where he was
disqualified or was not entitled to benefit by
reason of failure to meet the requirements of
section 45 or section 50, unless in the opinion
of an insurance officer an offence under
section 107 has been committed in connection
therewith. 1959, c. 36, s. 18.

**104.** (1) Ail amounts other than benefits
payable under this Act are debts due to Her
Majesty, and recoverable as such in the
Exchequer Court of Canada or any other
court of compétent jurisdiction or in any
other manner provided by this Act.
(2) An amount referred to in subsection (1)
that has not been paid, or such part thereof
as has not been paid, may be certified by the
Commission.
(3) On production to the Exchequer Court
of Canada a certificate made under this
section shall be registered in the Court and
when registered has the same force and effect
and ail proceedings may be taken thereon as
if the certificate were a judgment obtained in
the Court for a debt of the amount specified
in the certificate plus interest to the day of
payment.
(4) Ail reasonable costs and charges attend-
ant upon the registration of the certificate are
in like manner as if they had
certified and the certificates had been
under this section.
(5) The powers and functions of the Com-
under this section and section 105
be exercised by any officer appointed
to this Act and authorized in that
by gênerai or spécial directions of the
Commission. 1955, c. 50, s. 104.

**105.** (1) When the Commission has knowl-
edge or suspects that a person is or is about
to become indebted or liable to make any
payment to a person who is liable to make a
payment under this Act, the Commission
may, by registered letter or by a letter served
personally, require him to pay the moneys
otherwise payable to that person in whole or
in part on account of the iiability under this
Act.
(2) The receipt of the Commission for
money paid as required under this section is
a good and sufficient discharge of the original
iiability to the extent of the payment.
(3) Every person who has discharged any
Iiability to a person liable to make a payment
under this Act without complying with a
requirement under this section is liable to pay
an amount equal to the Iiability discharged
or the amount that he was required under this
section to pay, whichever is the lesser.
(4) Where the person who is or is about to
become indebted or liable carries on business
under a name or style other than his own
name, the registered or other letter under
subsection (1) may be addressed to the name
or style under which he carries on business
and, in the case of personal service, shall be
deemed to hâve been validly served if it has
been left with an adult person employed at
the place of business of the addressee.
(5) Where the persons who are or are about
to become indebted or liable carry on business
in partnership, the registered or other letter
under subsection (1) may be addressed to the
partnership name and, in the case of personal
or powers under this Act or the régulations is
guilty of an offence. 1955, c. 50, s. 106.

**107.** Every person is guilty of an offence
who
  * (_a_) in relation to any claim for benefit,
makes a statement or représentation that
he knows to be false or misleading ; or
(6) being required under this Act or the
régulations to furnish information, furnishes
any information or makes any représenta-
tion that he knows to be false or misleading.
1959, c. 36, s. 19.

**108.** Every person who contravenes or fails
to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or the régulations made by the Commis-
sion with the approval of the Governor in
Council is guilty of an offence. 1955, c. 50,
s. 107.

**109.** Every person who is guilty oî an
offence under this Act is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six months, or to both. 1955, c.
50, s. 108.

**110.** Where a corporation is guilty of an
offence under this Act, an officer, director or
agent of the corporation who directed,
authorized, assented to, acquiesced in, or
participated in, the commission of the offence
is a party to and guilty of the offence and is
liable on conviction to the punishment
provided for the offence whether or not the
corporation has been prosecuted or convicted.
1955, c. 50, s. 109.

**111.** (1) No proceedings for an offence
this Act shall be instituted without the
in writing of the Commission or an
appointed or employed pursuant to
Act and authorized in that behalf by
or gênerai directions of the Commis-
(2) A consent of the Commission or an
officer under subsection (1) purporting to be
signed or certified by a Commissioner or the
Secretary of the Commission, or purporting
to be signed by the officer, as the case may
be, shall be received in évidence without proof
of the signature or the officiai character of
the person appearing to hâve signed the
consent and without further proof thereof.
(3) No proceedings for an offence under
section 107 shall be instituted if a déclaration
of disqualification in respect of that offence
has been made under subsection 65(1). 1955, c.
50, s. 110; 1959, c. 36, s. 20.

**112.** (1) Proceedings for an offence under
this Act may be commenced at any time
within twelve months from the day on which
évidence sufficient in the opinion of the
Commission to justify prosecution for the
offence cornes to its knowledge.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a
document purporting to hâve been issued by
the Commission or an officer appointed or
employed pursuant to this Act, certifying as
to the date on which the évidence referred to
in that subsection came to the knowledge of
the Commission, shall be received in évidence
as conclusive proof of such fact without proof
of the signature or of the officiai character of
the person appearing to hâve signed the
document and without further proof. 1955, c.
50, s. 111.

**113.** Where a question specified in section
^^ «^ ^1 ^^ï^^s ^^ ^"^ l^ë^^ proceedings, the
justice or justices of the peace, magistrale,
judge or court before whom it arises shall, if
the question has not been decided by the
Commission, refer the question to the Com-
mission and defer further proceedings until
the Commission's décision is received, and
upon receipt of the Commission's décision,
shall proceed with the hearing and judgment
of the légal proceedings, and where an appeal
or référence to the umpire has been made,
shall nevertheless proceed with the hearing
but defer judgment until the umpire's décision
is received. 1955, c. 50, s. 112.

**114.** Where in any légal proceedings any
question arises and
  * (_a_) that question is one that could be
decided by an insurance officer under this
Act but has not been decided by an
insurance officer, or
  * (_b_) an appeal from a décision of an
insurance officer is pending,
the justice or justices of the peace, magistrate,
judge or court before whom the question arises
shall, in the case of a question coming within
paragraph (a), refer the question to the
insurance officer and deferfurtherproceedings
until the insurance officer's décision is
received, or, in the case of a question coming
within paragraph (6), deferfurtherproceedings
until the appeal décision has been received,
and upon receipt of such décision shall
proceed with the hearing and judgment ; and
in any légal proceedings under this Act, any
such décision is conclusive. 1955, c. 50, s. 113.

**115.** (1) Subject to subsections 4(3), (4) and
(5) of the Canada Evidence Act, the spouse of
a person charged with an offence in respect
of a statement or représentation as to
dependency is a compétent and compellable
witness for the prosecutionwithout the consent
of the person charged.
(2) Where in any prosecution a question
arises whether, for the purposes of section 47,
an insured person has a dépendant, the onus
of proving that fact lies on the accused. 1955,
c. 50, s. 114.

**116.** (1) In any proceedings under this Act,
  * (_a_) a document purporting to be a resolu-
tion, record or other proceeding of the
Commission or other proceeding under this
Act or a copy thereof , and purporting to be
certified by a Commissioner or the Secretary
of the Commission,
(6) a document purporting to be a copy of
or extract from
  * (_i_) a document in the custody of the
Commission or a document issued under
this Act, or
  * (_ii_) any entry in any books or records in
the custody of the Commission,
and purporting to be certified by the
Commission, an inspector or an officer
appointed or employed pursuant to this
Act,
  * (_c_) a document purporting to be certified
by the Commission, an inspector or an
officer appointed or employed pursuant to
this Act and setting forth the amount of
any contributions paid, payable or owing
or the amount of any benefit or other
amount paid to or owing by any person,
and
  * (_d_) a document purporting to be a copy of
any employer's register, books, wage sheets,
records of wages, ledgers, accounts or other
documents or any extract therefrom and
purporting to be certified by an inspector
or officer appointed or emploj'ed pursuant
to this Act to whom they were produced
under this Act,
is évidence of the facts appearing in the
document without proof of the signature or
officiai character of the person appearing to
hâve signed the certificate and without further
proof.
(2) For the purposes of this Act and the
régulations and any proceedings thereunder,
a document purporting to be a certificate of
the Commission or an officer or employée of
the Commission to the effect that a notice,
request, demand or other document was sent
by mail, is, unless the contrary is proved,
évidence that the notice, request, demand or
other document was received by the addressee
in the ordinary course of the mails. 1955, c.
50, s. 115; 1959, c. 36, s. 21.
