Insurance Act. R.S., c. 279, s. 1.

**2.** (1) In this Act
"amount of insurance" means the amount
stated as such in the contract of insurance ;
"brother" includes a half-brother and "sister"
includes a half-sister ;
"child" includes
  * (_a_) a legally adopted child,
(6) a stepchild who is designated by the
insured as a beneficiary and in such
désignation is described either by name or
as a stepchild, and
  * (_c_) an illegitimate child acknowledged or
maintained by the insured or for whom he
has been judicially ordered to provide
support ;
"discharge from service" includes any termi-
nation of service ;
"grandchild" includes a child as above defined
of a child as above defined ;
"insured" means any person with whom the
Minister enters into a contract of insurance
under this Act ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Vétérans
Affairs or such other Minister as the
Governor in Council may from time to time
détermine ;
"parent" includes a father, mother, grandfa-
ther, grandmother, stepfather, stepmother,
foster-father, foster-mother, of either the
insured or the spouse of the insured;
means
  * (_a_) service in the naval, army or air forces
of Canada by any person while in receipt
of either active service rates of pay or of
Permanent Force rates of pay, or
  * (_b_) active service in the naval, army or air
forces of His Majesty by any person
domiciled in Canada at the commencement
thereof
"vétéran" means any person, maie or female,
who was engaged in service during the war
and who has been granted discharge from
such service ;
"war" means the war that commenced in
September 1939, and which, for the purposes
of this Act, shall be deemed to hâve
terminated on the 30th day of September

**1947.**
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of the
définition "service" in subsection (1), service
by a person in the naval or army forces of
Newfoundland and service by a person
recruited in Newfoundland in any naval,
army or air forces raised in Newfoundland by
or on behalf of the United Kingdom, shall be
deemed to be service in the naval, army or
air forces of Canada and, for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of that définition, domicile in
Newfoundland shall be deemed to be domicile
in Canada. R.S., c. 279, s. 2.

**3.** (1) The Minister may, without requiring
médical examination or other évidence of
insurability, enter into a contract of Insurance
that provides for the payment in the event of
the death of the insured of five hundred
dollars or any multiple thereof not exceeding
ten thousand dollars,
  * (_a_) with a vétéran, on or before the Slst
day of October 1968, or
  * (_b_) with any of the following persons, on or
before the Slst day of October 1968,
  * (_iii_) a member of the regular force who
has not been released from such force and
who was engagée in service during the
war,
  * (_iv_) a merchant seaman who received or
was eligible to receive a bonus pursuant
to The Merchant Seamen Spécial Bonus
Order, or a seaman who received or was
eligible to receive a War Service Bonus
pursuant to The Merchant Seamen War
Service Bonus Order, 1944, and
  * (_v_) any other person who is, under the
Pension Act, in receipt of a disability
pension relating to the war.
(2) Where a contract of insurance is entered
into under this Act with a person whose life
is insured under The Retumed Soldiers'
Insurance Act, the amount of insurance under
such contract shall be limited so that the
aggregate amount of insurance in force on his
life under The Retumed Soldiers' Insurance
Act and this Act does not exceed ten thousand
dollars.
(3) Payment under a contract of insurance
shall be made on the death of the insured in
an amount not exceeding two thousand dollars
and the remainder, if any, or the portion
thereof to which any beneficiary is entitled,
shall, at the option of the insured, be payable
as
  * (_a_) an annuity certain for five, ten, fifteen
or twenty years ;
(6) a life annuity ; or
  * (_c_) an annuity guaranteed for five, ten,
fifteen or twenty years and payable there-
after as long as the beneficiary may live.
(4) Any option as to the mode of payment
chosen by the insured in his application for
insurance may subsequently be varied by
déclaration of the insured.
(5) The option as to mode of payment
chosen by the insured may after the death of
the insured be varied by the beneficiary with
the consent of the Minister. R.S., c. 279, s. 3;
annuity to any beneficiary is one thousand
dollars or less, the Minister may, upon the
request of the beneficiary, if he is satisfied
that it would be in the best interests of the
beneficiary to do so, direct that such money
shall be paid in such manner and in such
amounts, including payment in a lump sum,
as the Minister may consider appropriate.
1958, c. 43, s. 2.

**5.** (1) The contract may provide that if,
before attaining the âge of sixty years, the
insured becomes totally and permanently
disabled so that he is thereby rendered
incapable of pursuing continuously any
substantially gainful occupation, and if such
disability is not deemed to be attributable to
his service to such an extent as to entitle him
to pension on the grounds of total disability
under the Pension Act, the premiums thereafter
falling due under the contract, during the
continuance of such disability, shall be waived.
(2) The insured shall, for the purposes of
this section, be deemed to be totally and
permanently disabled where his total disabil-
ity bas existed continuously for a period of
at least one year. R.S., c. 279, s. 5.

**6.** (1) Where the insured is married, or is a
widow or a widower or divorced or unmarried
and with children, the beneficiary is the
spouse, or children of the insured, or some
one or more of such persons.
(2) Where the insured is unmarried, or is a
widow or a widower or divorced, and without
children, the beneficiary is the future spouse
or future children of the insured, or some one
or more of such persons.
(3) Where the insured désignâtes more than
one beneficiary, the insured may apportion,
and may at any time re-apportion, the
insurance money between or among them as
he sees fit, and in default of any such
apportionment the insurance money shall be
paid to the designated beneficiaries surviving
the insured in equal shares.
(4) Where a designated beneficiary dies in
the lifetime of the insured, the insured may,
subject to subsections (1) and (2), designate a
beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom the share
ormerly apportioned to the deceased benef ici-
shall be paid, and in default of any such
the said share shall be divided
among the surviving designated
if any.
(5) Whcre the insured does not designate a
benef iciary, or where ail of the beneficiaries
designated by him die within his lifetime, the
Insurance money shall be paid to the spouse
and the children of the insured in equal
shares, and if the insured survives the spouse
and ail the children of the insured, and there
is no contingent beneficiary within the
meaning of section 7 surviving the insured,
the insurance money shall be paid, as it falls
due or otherwise as the Minister may
détermine, to the estate of the insured. R.S.,
c. 279, s. 6,
7, (j) The insured may designate as a
Contingent beneficiary a grandchild, parent,
brother, or sister of the insured, or such other
person as may by régulation be prescribed for
the purposes of this section, to whom the
insurance money or any portion thereof shall
be paid in the event that the insured at the
time of his death is unmarried or is a widow
or a widower or divorced, and without
children.
(2) Where the insured survives the spouse
^"^^ ^^^ ^^^ children of the insured, the
insurance money shall be paid to the
contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries, if any,
but in default of the désignation of a
contingent beneficiary, or in the event of the
death of ail the contingent beneficiaries
within the lifetime of the insured, the
insurance money shall be paid, as it falls due
or otherwise as the Minister may détermine,
to the estate of the insured.
(3) Where the insured désignâtes more than
one contingent beneficiary, the insured may
apportion, and may at any time re-apportion,
the insurance money among them as he sees
fit, and in default of any such apportionment
the insurance money shall be paid to the
contingent beneficiaries surviving the insured
in equal shares.
(4) Where a contingent beneficiary dies in
the lifetime of the insured, the insured may,
subject to subsection (1), designate a contin-
gent beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom the
share formerly apportioned to the deceased
contingent beneficiary shall be paid, and in
default of any such désignation, the said
share shall be divided equally among the
contingent beneficiaries, if any, surviving the
insured. R.S., c. 279, s. 7.

**8.** Subject to this Act, the insured may at
any time change the beneficiary or benefici-
aries, or the contingent beneficiary or contin-
gent beneficiaries, theretofore designated by
the insured. R.S., c. 279, s. 8.

**9.** Any désignation of a beneficiary or of a
contingent beneficiary, or any variation in
the option as to the mode of payment or any
apportionment of insurance money, other
than is made by the insured in the application
for the insurance, may be made in accordance
with the provisions of the contract of insurance
in that behalf. R.S., c. 279, s. 9.

**10.** (1) The contract of insurance may
provide for payment of premiums during the
lifetime of the insured for a period of ten,
fifteen or twenty years oruntil the anniversary
of the policy nearest the sixty-fifth or eighty-
fifth birthday of the insured.
(2) The premiums payable under the vari-
ons plans of contract shall be as provided for
in Schedule A. R.S., c. 279, s. 12.

**11.** The Minister may refuse to enter into
a contract of insurance in any case where
there are in his opinion sufficient grounds for
so doing but, in the exercise of the powers
conferred upon him by this section, the
Minister shall be governed by Schedule B and
he may require for this purpose that the
applicant shall submit himself to médical
examination or shall furnish such other
information as the Minister may require. R.S.,
c. 279, s. 13.

**12.** The insurance money payable under
the contract of insurance is unassignable and
is not subject to the claims of creditors of the
insured or of the beneficiary. R.S., c. 279, s.

**14.**

**13.** Where an application for insurance is
^^^^ ^"^ *^^ appUcant dies before the
is one that would hâve been
if the applicant had not died. R.S.,
279, s. 15.

**14.** Where a beneficiary or contingent
survives the insured but dies
before receiving ail of the Insurance money
to which under the contract of insurance such
beneficiary or contingent beneficiary is enti-
tled, the remaining unpaid money shall be
paid, as it falls due or otherwise as the
Minister may détermine, to the estate of the
deceased beneficiary or deceased contingent
beneficiary. R.S., c. 279, s. 16.
15, Notwithstanding the Senate and House
o/ Commous Act, or any other law, no person,
by reason only of his entering into a contract
of insurance or receiving a benefit under this
Act, is liable to any forfeiture or penalty
imposed by the Senate and House of Gommons
Act or disqualified as a member of the House
of Gommons or incapable of being elected to,
or of sitting or voting in the House of
Gommons. R.S., c. 279, s. 17.
j^. The Govemor in Council may make
régulations
  * (_a_) prescribing the form of contracts and
such other forms as he may consider
necessary under this Act ;
  * (_b_) prescribing the mode of proving the âge,
identity and existence or death of persons;
  * (_c_) prescribing the mode of paying money
under contracts of insurance;
  * (_d_) for dispensing with the production of
letters probate or letters of administration,
either generaily or in any particular case or
class of cases ;
  * (_e_) prescribing the accounts to be kept and
their management ;
(/) respecting the cases or classes of cases in
which a contract of insurance may be
surrendered and a cash surrender value paid
therefor, or a paid-up contract of insurance
issued instead thereof, and for prescribing
the manner in which such cash surrender
value or amount of paid-up insurance shall
be determined ;
  * (_g_) prescribing the cases, not otherwise
provided for in this Act, in which a person
not originally named as, but who is eligible
under this Act to be a beneficiary, may be
made a benef iciary ;
  * (_h_) prescribing the cases, not otherwise
provided for in this Act, in which an
apportionment of the insurance money may
be made or varied ;
  * (_i_) prescribing the class or classes of persons
other than those mentioned in sections 6
and 7 who are entitled to be beneficiaries ;
0) prescribing the cases in which a dépend-
ant, other than the husband, wife or child
of the insured, may be named as a
beneficiary under the contract ;
  * (_k_) prescribing, in cases not otherwise prov-
ided for by the contract of insurance or by
déclaration or by this Act, the person or
persons entitled to whom the instalments,
if any, of insurance money remaining
unpaid at the death of a beneficiary shall
be paid ; and
(0 for any other purpose for which it is
deemed expédient to make régulations in
order to carry this Act into effect. R.S., c.
279, s. 18.

**17.** The moneys received under this Act
form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
and the moneys payable under this Act are
payable out of the said Fund. R.S., c. 279, s.

**19.**

**18.** (1) The Minister shall cause a state-
ment to be prepared within three months
after the end of each fiscal year showing
  * (_a_) the premiums received during the fiscal
year;
(6) the insurance moneys paid during the
fiscal year ;
  * (_c_) the number and amount of contracts
entered into during the fiscal year ;
  * (_d_) the number and amount of contracts in
force at the end of the fiscal year ; and
  * (_e_) such further information as the Minister
deems advisable.
(2) Every such statement shall be laid
before Parliament as soon as may be after it
is prepared. R.S., c. 279, s. 20.
Vétérans

## SCHEDULE A
MONTHLY PREMIUMS FOR Sl.OOO
  * (_a_) An applicant with dépendants, ill with a pensionable
disability.
Application is to be accepted.
  * (_b_) An applicant with dépendants, ill with a disability that
is not pensionable.
Application is to be accepted.
  * (_c_) An applicant without dépendants, ill with a pensionable
disability.
Application is to be accepted.
  * (_d_) An applicant without dépendants, ill with a disability
that is not pensionable.
Application is to be accepted,
Class II — Applicants who are seriously ill.
  * (_a_) An applicant with dépendants, seriously ill with a pen-
sionable disability.
Application is to be accepted.
  * (_b_) An applicant with dépendants, seriously ill with a disabil-
ity that is not pensionable.
Application is to be refused.
  * (_c_) An applicant without dépendants, seriously ill with a
pensionable disabihty.
Application is to be refused.
  * (_d_) An applicant without dépendants, seriously ill with a
disability that is not pensionable.
Application is to be refused.
Class III — Applications from persons in so serious a condition
of health that they hâve no reasonable expectation of life.
Applications are to be refused.
Class IV — General.
In cases where an applicant with or without dépendants
whose health has become impaired as a resuit of immoral con-
duct prior to enlistment, or as a resuit of refusai of treatment
for such condition during service or after discharge from service.
Applications are to be refused.
R.S., c. 279, Sch. B.
