
# CHAPTER W-IO
Act respecting the winding-up of insolvent
companies

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Winding-
up /Ic^. R. S., c. 296, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
'capital stock" includes a capital stock de jure
or de facto ;
'company" includes any corporation subject
to this Act ;
'contributory" means a person liable to
contribute to the assets of a company under
this Act ; and, in ail proceedings for
determining the persons who are to be
deemed contributories and in ail proceed-
ings prior to the final détermination of such
persons, it includes anj' person alleged to
be a contributory ;
'court" means
  * (_a_) in the Province of Ontario, the Suprême
Court of Ontario,
  * (_b_) in the Province of Québec, the Superior
Court,
  * (_c_) in the Province of Nova Scotia, the
Suprême Court,
  * (_d_) in the Province of New Brunswick, the
Suprême Court,
  * (_e_) in the Province of Manitoba, the Court
of Queen's Bench,
if) in the Province of British Columbia, the
Suprême Court,
  * (_g_) in the Province of Prince Edward Island,
the Suprême Court,
{h) in the Province of Saskatchewan, the
Court of Queen's Bench,
  * (_i_) in the Province of Alberta, the Suprême
Court,
  * (_j_) in the Province of Newfoundland, the
Suprême Court,
  * (_k_) in the Northwest Territories, such court
or magistrale or other judicial authority as
is designated, from time to time, by
proclamation of the Governor in Council,
published in the Canada Gazette, and
(0 in the Yukon Territory, the Territorial
Court ;
'creditor" includes ail persons having any
claim against the company présent or
future, certain, ascertained, or contingent,
for liquidated or unliquidated damages;
and in ail proceedings for determining the
persons who are to be deemed creditors it
includes any person making any such claim ;
'insurance company" means a company
transacting the business of insurance and
includes any unincorporated association or
reciprocal exchange transacting such busi-
ness;
'Minister" means
  * (_a_) in Part I, the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs, and
(6) in Parts II and III, the Minister of
Finance ;
'officiai gazette" means the Canada Gazette
and the gazette published under the
authority of the government of the province
where the proceedings for the winding-up
of the business of the company are carried
on, or used as the officiai means of
communication between the lieutenant
governor and the people, and if no such
gazette is published, then it means any
newspaper published in the province, and
designated by the court for publishing the
notices required bj- this Act ;
'trading company" means any company,
except a railway or telegraph company,
carrying on business similar to that carried
on by apothecaries, auctioneers, bankers,
brokers, brickmakers, builders, carpenters,
carriers, cattle or sheep salesmen, coach
proprietors, dyers, fullers, keepers of inns,
taverns, hôtels, saloons or coffee houses,
lime burners, livery stable keepers, market
gardeners, millers, miners, packers, printers,
quarrymen, sharebrokers, ship-owners, ship-
bargaining, exchange, bartering, commis-
sion, consignment or othenvise, in gross or
by retail, or by persons who, either for
themselves, or as agents or factors for others,
seek their living by buying and selling or
buying and letting for hire goods or
commodities, or by the manufacture, work-
manship or the conversion of goods or
commodities or trees ;
"winding-up order" means an order granted
bj' the court under this Act to wind up the
business of the company, and includes any
order granted by the court to bring under
this Act any company in liquidation or in
process of being wound up. R.S., c. 296, s.
2; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 38; 1967-68, c. 16, s. 10.

**3.** A company is deemed insolvent
  * (_a_) if it is unable to pay its debts as they
become due ;
(6) if it calls a meeting of its creditors for
the purpose of compounding with them ;
  * (_c_) if it exhibits a statement showing its
inability to meet its liabilities ;
  * (_d_) if it bas otherwise acknowledged its
insolvency ;
(é) if it assigns, removes or disposes of, or
attempts or is about to assign, remove or
dispose of, any of its property, with intent
to defraud, defeat or delay its creditors, or
anj' of them ;
(J) if, with such intent, it bas procured its
money, goods, chattels, land or property to
be seized, levied on or taken, under or b}-
any process of exécution ;
  * (_g_) if it has made any gênerai conveyance
or assignment of its property for the benefit
of its creditors, or if, being unable to meet
its liabilities in full, it makes any sale or
conveyance of the whole or the main part
of its stock in trade or assets, without the
consent of its creditors, or without satisfying
their claims ; or
  * (_h_) if it permits any exécution issued against
it, under which any of its goods, chattels,
land or property are seized, levied upon or
taken in exécution, to remain unsatisfied
until within four days of the time fixed by
the sheriff or proper officer for the sale
thereof, or for fifteen days after such
seizure. R.S., c. 296, s. 3.

**4.** A Company is deemed to be unable to
pay its debts as they become due whenever a
creditor, to whom the company is indebted in
a sum exceeding two hundred dollars then
due, has served on the company, in the
manner in which process may legally be
served on it in the place where service is
made, a demand in writing, requiring the
company to pay the sum so due, and the
company has, for ninety days, in the case of
a bank, and for sixty days in ail other cases,
next succeeding the service of the demand,
neglected to pay such sum, or to secure or
compound for the same to the satisfaction of
the creditor. R.S., c. 296, s. 4.

**5.** The winding-up of the business of a
company shall be deemed to commence at the
time of the service of the notice of présentation
of the pétition for winding up. R.S., c. 296,
s. 5.
APPLICATION

**6.** T^ig Act appUes to ail corporations
incorporated by or under the authority of an
Act of the Parliament of Canada, or by or
under the authority of any Act of the former
Province of Canada, or of the Province of
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, British
Columbia, Prince Edward Island or New-
foundland, and whose incorporation and the
affairs whereof are subject to the législative
authority of the Parliament of Canada ; and
also to incorporated banks, savings banks,
incorporated Insurance companies, loan com-
having borrowing powers, building
having a capital stock, and incor-
being wound up, and, on pétition bj- any
of their shareholders or creditors, assignées
or liquidators ask to be brought under this
Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 6.

**7.** This Act does not apply to building
societies that do not hâve a capital stock or
to railwav or telegraph companies. R.S., c.
296, s. 7.

## PARTI

## GENERAL
Limitation of Part

**8.** In the case of a bank other than a
savings bank the provisions of this Part are
subject to the provisions of Part IL R.S., c.
296, s. 8.

**9.** In the case of insurance companies the
provisions of this Part are subject to the
provisions of Part III. R.S., c. 296, s. 9.
Winding-up Order

**10.** The court may make a winding-up
order,
  * (_a_) where the period, if any, fixed for the
duration of the company by the Act, charter
or instrument of incorporation bas expired ;
or where the event, if any, has occurred,
upon the occurrence of vvhich it is provided
by the Act or charter or instrument of
incorporation that the company is to be
dissolved ;
  * (_b_) where the company at a spécial meeting
of shareholders called for the purpose has
passed a resolution requiring the company
to be wound up ;
  * (_c_) when the company is insolvent ;
  * (_d_) when the capital stock of the company
is impaired to the extent of twenty-five per
cent thereof, and when it is shown to the
satisfaction of the court that the lost capital
will not likely be restored within one year ;
or
  * (_e_) when the court is of opinion that for
any other reason it is just and équitable
that the company should be wound up.
R.S., c. 296, s. 10.
Application for Order

**11.** The application for such winding-up
order may, in the cases mentioned in
paragraphs 10(a) and (6), be made by the
company or by a shareholder; and in the case
mentioned in paragraph 10(c), by the company
or by a creditor for the sum of at least two
hundred dollars, or, except in the case of
banks and insurance corporations, by a
shareholder holding shares in the capital stock
of the company to the amount of at least five
hundred dollars par value, or holding five
shares without nominal or par value in the
capital stock of the company, and, in the
other cases mentioned in section 10, by a
shareholder holding shares in the capital
stock of the company to the amount of at
least five hundred dollars par value, or hold-
ing five shares without nominal or par value
in the capital stock of the company. R.S., c.
296, s. 11.

**12.** (1) Such application may be made by
pétition to the court in the province where
the head office of the company is situated,
or, if there is no head office in Canada, then
in the province where its chief place, or one
of its chief places of business is situated.
(2) Except in cases where such application
is made by the company, four days notice of
the application shall be given to the company
before the making of the application. R.S., c.
296, s. 12.

**13.** The court may, on application for a
winding-up order, make the order applied for,
dismiss the pétition with or without costs,
adjourn the hearing conditionally or uncon-
ditionally, or make any intérim or other order
that it deems just. R.S., c. 296, s. 13.

**14.** If the company opposes the application
on the ground that it has not become
insolvent, or that its suspension or default
only temporary, and was not caused by a
in its assets, or that the capital
is not impaired to the extent aforesaid,
or that such impairment does not endanger
the capacity of the company to pay its debts
in full, or that there is a probability that the
lost capital will be restored within a year or
within a reasonable time thereafter, and shows
reasonable cause for believing that such
opposition is well founded, the court, in its
discrétion, may, from time to time, adjourn
proceedings upon such application, for a time
not exceeding six months from the date of
the application, and may order an accountant
or other person to inquire into the affairs of
the company, and to report thereon within a
period not exceeding thirt^- days from the
date of such order. R.S., c. 296, s. 14.
15, Upon the service on the company of
an order made under section 14, for an inquiry
into the affairs of the company, the président,
directors, officers and employées of the
company and everj* other person, shall
respectively exhibit to the accountant or other
person named for the purpose of making such
inquiry, the books of accouni of the company
and ail inventories, papers and vouchers
referring to the business of the company or of
an}- person therewith that are in his or their
possession, custody or control, respectively;
and they shall also respectively give ail such
information as is required by such accountant
or other person as aforesaid, in order to form
a just estimate of the affairs of the company.
R.S., c. 296, s. 15.

**16.** Upon receiving the report of the
accountant or person ordered to inquire into
the affairs of the company, and after hearing
such shareholders or creditors of the company
as désire to be heard thereon, the court may
either refuse the application or make the
winding-up order. R.S., c. 296, s. 16.
Staying Proceedings

**17.** The court may, upon the application
of the company, or of any creditor or
contributory, at any time after the présenta-
tion of a pétition for a winding-up order and
before making the order, restrain further
in any action, suit or proceeding
against the companj-, upon such terms as the
court thinks fit. R.S., c. 296, s. 17.

**18.** The court may, upon the application
of any creditor or contributory, at any time
after the winding-up order is made, and upon
proof. to the satisfaction of the court, that ail
proceedings in relation to the winding-up
ought to be stayed, make an order staying
such proceedings, either altogether or for a
limited time, on such terms and subject to
such conditions as the court thinks fit. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 18.
Effect of Winding-up Order

**19.** The companj', from the time of the
making of the winding-up order, shall cease
to carry on its business, except in so far as is,
in the opinion of the liquidator, required for
the bénéficiai winding-up thereof; but the
corporate state and ail the corporate powers
of the Company, notwithstanding that it is
otherwise provided by the Act, charter or
instrument of incorporation, continue until
the affairs of the companj' are wound up.
R.S., c. 296, s. 19.

**20.** Ail transfers of shares, except transfers
made to or with the sanction of the liquidator,
under the authority of the court, and every
altération in the status of the members of the
Company, after the commencement of such
winding-up, are void. R.S., c. 296, s. 20.
2 1. After the winding-up order is made, no
suit, action or other proceeding shall be
proceeded with or commenced against the
Company, except with the leave of the court
and subject to such terms as the court imposes.
R.S., c. 296, s. 21.

**22.** Every attachment, séquestration, dis-
tress or exécution put in force against the
estate or effects of the company after the
making of the winding-up order is void. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 22.
Appointment of Liquidators

**23.** (1) The court in making the winding-
up order, may appoint a liquidator or more
the Company.
(2) In the case of any company except
incorporated building societies, banks,savings
banks, Insurance companies, trust companies,
loan companies and railway companies, the
court shall not appoint as liquidator any
person who is not licensed as a trustée under
the Bankmptcy Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 23.

**24.** If more than one liquidator is appoint-
ed, the court may déclare whether any act to
be done by a liquidator is to be done by ail
or any one or more of the liquidators. R.S., c.
296, s. 24.

**25.** The court may, if it thinks fit, after
the appointment of one or more liquidators,
appoint an additional liquidator or liquida-
tors. R.S., c. 296, s. 25.

**26.** No liquidator aforesaid shall be
appointed unless a previous notice is given to
the creditors, contributories and shareholders
or members ; and the court shall by order
direct ihe manner and form in which such
notice shall be given and the length of such
notice. R.S., c. 296, s. 26.

**27.** The court shall also détermine what
security shall be given by a liquidator on his
appointment. R.S., c. 296, s. 27.

**28.** The court may on the présentation of
the pétition for a winding-up order or at any
time thereafter and before the first appoint-
ment of a liquidator appoint provisionally a
liquidator of the estate and effects of the
company and may limit and restrict his
powers by the order appointing him. R.S., c.
296, s. 28.

**29.** An incorporated company may be
appointed liquidator to the goods and effects
of a company under this Act; and if an
incorporated company is so appointed, it may
act through one or more of its principal
officers designated by the court. R.S., c. 296,
province, and is permitted to act as
assignée or curator without
giving security, the trust company may be
appointed liquidator of a company under this
Act, without giving security. R.S., c. 296,

**30.**
3 1. Upon the appointment of the liquidator
ail the powers of the directors cease, except in
so far as the court or the liquidator sanctions
the continuance of such powers. R.S., c. 296,
s. 31.

**32.** A liquidator may resign or may be
removed by the court on due cause shown,
and every vacancy in the office of liquidator
shall be filled by the court. R.S., c. 296, s. 32.
Powers and Duties of Liquidators

**33.** The liquidator, upon his appointment,
shall take into his custody or under his
control, ail the property, effects and choses in
action to which the company is or appears to
be entitled, and he shall perform such duties
in référence to winding up the business of the
company as are imposed by the court or by
this Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 33.

**34.** The liquidator shall, within sixty days
after his appointment, prépare a statement of
the assets, debts and liabilities of the company
and of the value of such assets as shown by
his books and records. R.S., c. 296, s. 34.

**35.** (1) The liquidator may, with the
approval of the court, and upon such previous
notice to the creditors, contributories, share-
holders or members as the court orders,
  * (_a_) bring or défend any action, suit or
prosecution or other légal proceeding, civil
or criminal, in his own name as liquidator
or in the name or on behalf of the company,
as the case may be ;
(6) carry on the business of the company so
far as is necessary to the bénéficiai winding-
up of the same ;
  * (_c_) sell the real and personal and heritable
and movable property, effects and choses
in action of the company, by public auction
or private contract, and transfer the whole
thereof to any person or company, or sell
the same in parcels for such considération
as may be approved by the court ;
  * (_d_) do ail acts, and exécute, in the name
and on behalf of the company, ail deeds,
receipts and other documents, and for that
purpose use, when necessary, the seal of the
company;
  * (_e_) prove, rank, claim and draw dividends
in the matter of the bankruptcy, insolvency
or séquestration of any contributory, for
any sum due the company from such
contributory, and take and receive dividends
in respect of such sum in the matter of the
bankruptcy, insolvency or séquestration, as
a separate debt due from such contributory
and ratably with the other separate credi-
tors;
  * (_f_) draw, accept, make and endorse any bill
of exchange or promissory note in the name
and on behalf of the company;
  * (_g_) raise upon the security of the assets of
the company, from time to time, any
requisite sum or sums of money ; and
  * (_h_) do and exécute ail such other things as
are necessary for winding up the affairs of
the company and distributing its assets.
(2) The drawing, accepting, making or
endorsing of every bill of exchange or
promissory note, as mentioned in subsection
(1), on behalf of the company, has the same
effect, with respect to the liability of such
company, as if such bill or note had been
drawn, accepted, made or endorsed by or on
behalf of such company in the course of the
carrying on of its business.
(3) No delivery of the whole or of any part
of the assets of the company is necessary to
give a lien to any person taking security as
aforesaid upon the assets of the company.
R.S., c. 296, s. 35.
36, The liquidator may, with the approval
of the court, appoint a solicitor or law agent
to assist him in the performance of his duties.
R.S., 0. 296, s. 36.

**37.** (1) The liquidator may, with the
approval of the court, compromise ail calls
and liabilities to calls, debts and liabilities
capable of resulting in debts, and ail claims,
demands and matters in dispute in any way
to or affecting the assets of the
Company or the winding-up of the company,
upon the receipt of such sums, payable at
such times, and generally upon such terms, as
are agreed upon.
(2) The liquidator may take any security
for the discharge of such calls, debts, liabihties,
claims, demands, or disputed matters, and
give a complète discharge in respect of ail or
any such calls, debts, liabilities, claims,
demands, or matters. R.S., c. 296, s. 37.

**38.** The liquidator may, with the approval
of the court, make such compromise or other
arrangements with creditors or persons claim-
ing to be creditors of the companj' as he
deems expédient. R.S., c. 296, s. 38.

**39.** The court ma}' provide, b}- any order
subséquent to the winding-up order, that the
liquidator may exercise any of the powers
conferred upon him by this Act, without the
sanction or intervention of the court. R.S., c.
296, s. 39.

**40.** The liquidator shall promptly after
their receipt or préparation, mail to the
Dominion Statistician, Dominion Bureau of
Statistics, Ottawa, a true copy of
  * (_a_) the winding-up order referred to in
section 10;
(6) the pétition referred to in section 12;
  * (_c_) the statement of the debts, liabilities
and assets of the company and statements
of the value of such assets referred to in
section 34 ; and
  * (_d_) the dividend sheets referred to in section

**85.** R.S., c. 296, s. 40.
Appointment of Inspectors

**41.** The court may appoint, at any time
when found advisable, one or more inspectors,
whose duty it is to assist and advise the
liquidator in the liquidation of the company.
R.S., c. 296, s. 41.
Rémunération of Liquidators and Inspectors

**42.** (1) The liquidator shall be paid such
or rémunération, by way of percentage
or otherwise, as the court directs, upon such
notice to the creditors, contributors, share-
holders or members, as the court orders.
(2) If there is more than one liquidator, the
rémunération shall be distributed among them
in such proportions as the court directs. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 42.

**43.** The court shall détermine the rému-
nération, if any is deemed just, of the
inspector or inspectors. R.S., c. 296, s. 43.
Depositing in Bank

**44.** The liquidator shall deposit at interest
in a chartered bank or Government savings
bank designated by the court, ail sums of
money that he bas in his hands belonging to
the Company, whenever and so often as such
sums amount to one hundred dollars. R.S., c.
296, s. 44.

**45.** Such deposits shall not be made in the
name of the liquidator individually, on pain
of dismissal ; but a separate account shall be
kept for the companj" of the moneys belonging
to the Company in the name of the liquidator
as such liquidator. R.S., c. 296, s. 45.

**46.** The liquidator shall, within three days
after the date of the final winding-up of the
business of the company, deposit at interest
in the bank appointed or designated, as
hereinbefore provided, any money belonging
to the estate then in his hands and not
required for any other purpose authorized by
this Act, with a sworn statement and account
of such money, and that such money is ail
that he has in his hands. R.S., c. 296, s. 46.

**47.** In case any liquidator does not, within
three days after the date of the final winding-
up of the business of the company, deposit in
the bank, appointed or designated as herein-
before provided, anj" money belonging to the
estate of which he is such liquidator, then in
his hands, he shall be deemed a debtor to Her
Majesty for such money, and may be
compelled as such to account for and pay
over such money. R.S., c. 296, s. 47.
Court Discharging Functions of Liquidator

**48.** If at any time there is no liquidator,
ail the property of the company shall be
deemed to be in the custody of the court.
R.S., c. 296, s. 48.

**49.** (1) Whenever a company is being
wound up, and the realization and distribution
of its assets has proceeded so far that in the
opinion of the court it becomes expédient
that the liquidator should be discharged, and
that the balance remaining in his hands of
the moneys and assets of the company can be
better realized and distributed by the court,
the court may make an order discharging the
liquidator, and for payment, delivery and
transfer into court, or to such officer or person
as the court may direct, of such moneys and
assets, and the same shall be realized and
distributed, by or under the direction of the
court, among the persons entitled thereto, in
the same way, as nearly as may be, as if the
distribution were being made by the liquida-
tor.
(2) In such case the court may make an
order directing how the books, accounts and
documents of the company and of the
liquidator may be disposed of , and may order
that they be deposited in court or otherwise
dealt with as may be thought fit. R.S., c. 296,
s. 49.
Contributories

**50.** As soon as may be after the commence-
ment of the winding-up of a company the
court shall settle a list of contributories. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 50.

**51.** In the list of contributories, persons
who are contributories in their own right shall
be distinguished from persons who are
contributories as représentatives of or liable
for the debts of others. R.S., c. 296, s. 51.

**52.** It is not necessary, where the personal
représentative of any deceased contributory
is placed on the list, to add the heirs or
devisees of such contributory, but such heirs
or devisees may be added as and when the
court thinks fit. R.S., c. 296, s. 52.

**53.** (1) Every shareholder or member of
the company or his représentative, is liable to
contribute the amount unpaid on his shares
the capital, or on his liability to the
Company, or to its members or creditors, as
the case may be, under the Act, charter or
instrument of incorporation of the company,
or otherwise.
(2) The amount that he is liable to
contribute shall be deemed an asset of the
company, and a debt due to the company,
payable as directed or appointed under this
Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 53.

**54.** (1) Where a shareholder has transferred
his shares under circumstances that do not,
by law, free him from liability in respect
thereof, or where he is by law liable to the
company or its members or creditors, as the
case may be, to an amount beyond the
amount unpaid on his shares, he shall be
deemed a member of the company for the
purposesof this Act, and is liable to contribute,
as aforesaid, to the extent of his liabilities to
the company or its members or creditors,
independently of this Act.
(2) The amount that he is so liable to
contribute shall be deemed an asset and a
debt as aforesaid. R.S., c. 296, s. 54.

**55.** The liability of any person to contrib-
ute to the assets of a company under this Act,
in the event of the business of the company
being wound up, créâtes a debt accruing due
from such person at the time when his liability
commenced, but payable at the time or
respective times when calls are made, as
hereinafter mentioned, for enforcing such
liability. R.S., c. 296, s. 55.

**56.** In the case of the bankruptcy or
insolvency of any contributory, the estimated
value of his liability to future calls, as well as
calls alread}' made, may be proved against
his estate. R.S., c. 296, s. 56.

**57.** The court may, at any time, after
making a winding-up order, require any
contributory for the time being settled on the
list of contributories as trustée, receiver,
banker, agent or officer of the company, to
pay, deliver, convey, surrender or transfer
forthwith, or within such time as the court
fade entitled. R.S., c. 296, s. 57.

**58.** The court may, at any time after
making a winding-up order, make an order
on any contributory for the time being settled
on the list of contributories, directing payment
to be made, in manner mentioned in the said
order, of any moneys due from him or from
the estate of the person whom he represents,
to the company, exclusive of any moneys that
he or the estate of the person whom he
represents is liable to contribute by virtue of
any call made in pursuance of this Act. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 58.

**59.** The court may, at any time after
making a winding-up order, and either before
or after it has ascertained the sufficiency of
the assets of the company, make calls on and
order payment thereof by ail or any of the
contributories for the time being settled on
the list of contributories, to the extent of their
liability, for payment of ail or any sums it
deems necessary to satisfy the debts and
liabilities of the company, and the costs,
charges and expenses of winding up, and for
the adjustment of the rights of the contributo-
ries among themselves. R.S., c. 296, s. 59.

**60.** (1) The court may, in making a call,
take into considération the probability that
some of the contributories upon whom the
call is made may partly or wholly fail to pay
their respective portions of the call.
(2) No call compels payment of a debt
before the maturity thereof, and the extent
of the liability of any contributory is not
increased by anything in this section. R.S., c.
296, s. 60.

**61.** (1) The court may order any contribu-
tory, purchaser or other person from whom
money is due to the company, to pay such
money into a chartered bank or other bank or
Government savings bank, to the account of
the court, instead of the liquidator.
(2) Such order may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had directed payment to the
R.S., c. 296, s. 61.

**62.** The court shall adjust the rights of the
contributories among themselves. R.S., c. 296,
s. 62.
Meetings of Creditors

**63.** The court may, if it thinks expédient,
direct meetings of the creditors, contributories,
shareholders or members to be summoned,
held and conducted in such manner as the
court directs, for the purpose of ascertaining
their wishes, and may appoint a person to act
as chairman of any such meeting, and to
report the resuit of such meeting to the court.
R.S., c. 296, s. 63.

**64.** (1) In such case regard shall, as to
creditors, be had to the amount of the debt
due to each creditor and as to shareholders or
members, to the number of votes conferred on
each shareholder or member by law or by the
régulations of the company.
(2) The court may prescribe the mode of
preliminary proof of creditors' claims for the
purpose of the meeting. R.S., c. 296, s. 64.

**65.** Where any compromise or arrangement
is proposed between a company in course of
being wound up under this Act and the
creditors of the company, or by and between
any such creditors or any class or classes of
such creditors and the company, the court, in
addition to any other of its powers, may, on
the application, in a summary way, of any
creditor, or of the liquidator, order that a
meeting of such creditors or class or classes of
creditors shall be summoned in such manner
as the court shall direct. R.S., c. 296, s. 65.

**66.** If a majority in number, representing
three-fourths in value, of such creditors, or
class or classes of creditors, présent either in
person or by proxy at such meeting, agrée to
any arrangement or compromise, such arrange-
ment or compromise may be sanctioned by an
order of the court, and in such case is binding
on ail such creditors, or on such class or classes
of creditors, as the case may be, and also on
the liquidator and contributories of the
R.S., c. 296, s. 66.
Company to be held as provided in this Act,
the court may either appoint a person to act
as chairman of such meeting, or direct that a
chairman be appointed by the persons entitled
to be présent at such meeting; and, in case
the appointed chairman fails to attend the
meeting, the persons présent at the meeting
may elect a chairman qualified who shall
perform the duties prescribed by this Act.
R.S., c. 296, s. 67.

**68.** No contributory, creditor, shareholder,
or member shall vote at any meeting unless
présent personally or represented by some
person acting under a written authority, filed
with the chairman or liquidator, to act as such
représentative at the meeting, or generally.
R.S., c. 296, s. 68.
Production of Pass-books

**69.** At every meeting of the contributories,
creditors, shareholders or members, the
liquidator shall produce a bank pass-book,
showing the amount of the deposits made for
the Company, the dates at which such deposits
were made, the amount withdrawn and dates
of such withdrawal. R.S., c. 296, s. 69.

**70.** The liquidator shall also produce such
pass-book whenever ordered to do so by the
court. R.S., c. 296, s. 70.
Creditors ' Claims

**71.** (1) When the business of a company is
being wound up under this Act, ail debts
payable on a contingency, and ail claims
against the company, présent or future,
certain or contingent, and for liquidated or
unliquidated damages, are admissible to proof
against the company.
(2) In case of any daim subject to any
contingency or for unliquidated damages or
which for any other reason does not bear a
certain value, the court shall détermine the
of such claim and the amount for which
it shall rank. R.S., c. 296, s. 71.

**72.** Clerks or other persons in, or having
been in the employment of the company, in
or about its business or trade, shall be
collocated in the dividend sheet b}- spécial
privilège over other creditors, for an}' arrears
of salary or wages due and unpaid to them at
the time of the making of the winding-up
order, not exceeding the arrears that hâve
accrued to them during the three months
immediately preceding the date of such order.
R.S., c. 296, s. 72.

**73.** The law of set-off, as administered by
the courts, whether of law or equity, applies
to ail claims upon the estate of the company,
and to ail proceedings for the recovery of
debts due or accruing due to the company at
the commencement of the winding-up, in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the
business of the companj- was not being wound
up under this Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 73.

**74.** The court may fix a certain day or
certain days on or within which creditors of
the company may send in their claims, and
may direct notice thereof to be given by the
liquidator, and détermine the manner in
which notice of the day or days so fixed shall
be given by the liquidator to the creditors.
R.S., c. 296, s. 74.

**75.** (1) The liquidator may give notice in
writing to creditors who hâve sent in their
claims to him, or of whose claims he has
notice, and whose claims he considers should
not be allowed without proof, requiring such
creditors to attend before the court on a day
to be named in such notice and prove their
claims to the satisfaction of the court.
(2) In case any creditor does not attend in
pursuance of such notice his claim shall be
disallowed, unless the court sees fit to grant
further time for the proof thereof.
(3) Jf any creditor attends in pursuance of
such notice, the court may on hearing the
allow or disallow the claim of such
in whole or in part. R.S., c. 296, s. 75.

**76.** (1) After the notices required by sec-
tions 74 and 75 hâve been given, and the
respective times therein specified hâve
expired, and ail claims of which proof has
been required by due notice in writing by the
liquidator in that behalf hâve been allowed
or disallowed by the court in whole or in part,
the liquidator may distribute the assets of the
Company or any part thereof among the
persons entitled thereto and without référence
to any claim against the company that has
not then been sent to the liquidator.
(2) The liquidator is not liable to any
person whose claim has not been sent in at
the time of distributing such assets or part
thereof for the assets or part thereof so
distributed. R.S., c. 296, s. 76.

**77.** In case any claim or claims are sent in
to the liquidator after any partial distribution
of the assets of the company, such daim or
claims, subject to proof and allowance as
required by this Act, shall rank with other
claims of creditors in any future distribution
of assets of the company. R.S., c. 296, s. 77.
Secured Claims

**78.** If a creditor holds security upon the
estate of the company, he shall specify the
nature and amount of such security in his
claim, and shall therein, on his oath, put a
specified value thereon. R.S., c. 296, s. 78.

**79.** The liquidator, under the authority of
the court, may either consent to the rétention
by the creditor of the property and effects
constituting such security or on which it
attaches, at such specified value, or he may
require from such creditor an assignment and
delivery of such security, property and effects,
at such specified value, to be paid by him out
of the estate so soon as he has realized such
security, together with interest on such value
from the date of filing the claim until
payment. R.S., c. 296, s. 79.

**80.** In case of such rétention, the différence
the value at which the security is
and the amount of the daim of such
shall be the amount for which he
rank as aforesaid. R.S., c. 296, s. 80.

**81.** (1) If a créditer holds a claira based
upon negotiable instruments upon which the
Company is only indirectly or secondarily
liable, and that is not mature or exigible, such
créditer shall be considered to hold security
within the meaning of sections 78, 79 and 80,
and shall put a value on the liability of the
person primarily liable thereon as being his
security for the payment thereof.
(2) After the maturity of such liability and
its non-payment the créditer is entitled te
amend and revalue his claim. R.S., c. 296,
s. 81.

**82.** Where the security censists of a
mortgage upon ships or shipping, or upon
real property, or of a registered judgment, or
an exécution binding real propertj' that is not
by some ether provision of this Act invalid
fer any purpose of creating a lien, claim or
privilège upon the real or personal property
of the Company, the property mortgaged or
beund by such security shall only be assigned
and delivered te the crediters
  * (_a_) subject te ail previeus mortgages, judg-
ments, exécutions, hypothecs and liens
thereon, holding rank and priority before
his claim ;
(6) upon his assuming and binding himself
te pay ail such previeus mortgages, judg-
ments, exécutions, hj^pothecs and liens ; and
  * (_c_) upon his securing the estate ef the
Company te the satisfaction ef the liquidator
against any daim by reason of such previeus
mortgages, judgments, exécutions, hypo-
thecs and liens. R.S., c. 296, s. 82.

**83.** Where there are mortgages, judgments,
exécutions, hypothecs, or liens upon such
  * (_c_) upon his paying them the value by them
placed thereon; or
  * (_d_) upon his securing the estate of the
Company to the satisfaction of the liquidator
against any claim by reason of such
subséquent mortgages, judgments, exécu-
tions, hj'pothecs and liens. R.S., c. 296,
s. 83.

**84.** Upon a secured claim being filed, with
a valuation of the security, the liquidator
shall procure the authority of the court to
consent to the rétention of the security by the
creditor, or shall require from him an
assignment and delivery thereof. R.S., c. 296,
s. 84.
Dividend Sheet

**85.** In the préparation of the dividend
sheet, due regard shall be had to the rank and
privilège of every creditor, but no dividend
shall be allotted or paid to any creditor
holding security upon the estate of the
Company for his claim until the amount for
which he may rank as a creditor upon the
estate, as to dividends therefrom, is established
as herein provided. R.S., c. 296, s. 85.
Liens

**86.** (1) No lien or privilège shall be created
  * (_a_) upon the real or personal property of
the Company, for the amount of any
judgment debt, or of the interest thereon,
by the issue or deliverj' to the sheriff of
any writ of exécution, or by levying upon
or seizing under such writ the effects or
estate of the companj' ; or
(6) upon the real or personal property of
the Company, or upon any debts due or
accruing or becoming due to the company,
by the filing or registering of any mémorial
or minute of judgment, or by the issue or
taking out of any attachment or garnishee
order or other process or proceeding;
if, before the payment over to the plaintiff of
the moneys actually levied, paid or received
under such writ, mémorial, minute, attach-
ment, garnishee order or other process or
proceeding, the winding-up of the business of
the compan}' has commenced.
(2) This section does not affect any lien or
privilège for costs that the plaintiff possesses
under the law of the province in which such
writ, attachment, garnishee order or other
process or proceeding was issued or taken out.
R.S., c. 296, s. 86.
Contestation of Claims
gy, Anv liquidator, créditer or contributo-
u i  i j l i
'">'' °'' shareholder or member may object to
any claim filed with the liquidator, or to any
dividend declared. R.S., c. 296, s. 87.

**88.** (1) Where a claim or dividend is
objected to, the objections shall be filed in
writing with the liquidator, together with the
évidence of the previous service of a copy
thereof on the claimant.
(2) The claimant shall hâve six days to
answer the objections, or such further time as
the court allows, and the contestant shall
hâve three days to reply, or such further time
as the court allows. R.S., c. 296, s. 88.

**89.** Upon the completion of the issues upon
the objections, the liquidator shall transmit
to the court ail necessary papers relating to
the contestation, and the court shall then, on
the application of either party, fix a day for
taking évidence upon the contestation, and
hearing and determining the same. R.S., c.
296, s. 89.

**90.** The court may make such order as
seems proper in respect to the payment of the
costs of the contestation by either party or
out of the estate of the company. R.S., c. 296,
s. 90.

**91.** Where, after a claim or dividend has
been duly objected to, the claimant does not
answer the objections, the court may, on the
application of the contestant, make an order
barring the claim or correcting the dividend,
or may make such other order in référence
thereto as appears right. R.S., c. 296, s. 91.

**92.** The court may order the person
objecting to a daim or dividend to give
for the costs of the contestation
a limited time, and may, in default,
dismiss the contestation or stay proceedings
thereon, upon such terms as the court thinks
just. R.S., c. 296, s. 92.
Distribution of Assets

**93.** The property of the company shall be
applied in satisfaction of its debts and
liabilities, and the charges, costs and expenses
incurred in winding up its affairs. R.S., c. 296,
s. 93.

**94.** Ail costs, charges and expenses properly
incurred in the winding-up of a company,
including the rémunération of the liquidator,
are payable out of the assets of the company,
in priority to ail other claims. R.S., c. 296,
s. 94.

**95.** The court shall distribute among the
persons entitled thereto any surplus that
remains after satisfaction of the debts and
liabilities of the company, and the winding-
up charges, costs and expenses, and unless
otherwise provided by law or by the Act,
charter or instrument of incorporation, any
property or assets remaining after such
satisfaction shall be distributed among the
members or shareholders according to their
rights and interests in the company. R.S., c.
296, s. 95.
Fraudulent Préférences

**96.** Ail gratuitous contracts, or convej'ances
or contracts without considération, or with a
merely nominal considération, respecting
either real or personal property, made by a
company in respect to which a winding-up
order under this Act is afterwards made, with
or to any person whatsoever, whether creditor
of the company or not, within three months
immediately preceding the commencement of
the winding-up, or at any time afterwards,
shall be presumed to hâve been made with
intent to defraud the creditors of such
company. R.S., c. 296, s. 96.

**97.** Ail contracts by which creditors are
injured, obstructed or delayed, made by a
company unable to meet its engagements,
and in respect to which a winding-up order
under this Act is afterwards made, with a
whether a créditer of the company or
not, who knows such inability or has probable
cause for believing such inability to exist, or
after such inability is public and notorious,
shall be presumed to be made with intent to
defraud the creditors of such companv. R.S.,
c. 296, s, 97.

**98.** A contract or conveyance for considér-
ation, respecting either real or personal
property, by which creditors are injured or
obstructed, made bj' a company unable to
meet its engagements with a person ignorant
of such inability, whether a créditer of the
company or not, and before such inability has
become public and notorious, but within
thirty days next before the commencement of
the winding-up of the business of such
company under this Act, or at any time
afterwards, is voidable, and may be set aside
by any court of compétent jurisdiction, upon
such terms as to the protection of such person
from actual loss or liability by reason of such
contract as the court orders. R.S., c. 296, s. 98.

**99.** Ail contracts or conveyances made and
acts done by a company respecting either real
or Personal property, with intent fraudulently
to impede, obstruct or delay the creditors of
the company in their remédies against the
company, or with intent to defraud the
creditors of the company or any of them, and
so made, done and intended with the
knowledge of the person contracting or acting
with the company, whether a créditer of the
companj' or not, and that hâve the effect of
impeding, obstructing or delaying the credi-
tors in their remédies, or of injuring them, or
any of them, are void. R.S., c. 296, s. 99.

**100.** (1) Where any sale, deposit, pledge
or transfer is made of any property, real or
Personal, by a company in contemplation of
effects or valuable security, are given
way of payment by such company to any
whereby such creditor obtains or will
an unjust préférence over the other
creditors, such sale, deposit, pledge, transfer
or payment is void ; and the subject thereof
may be recovered back for the benefit of the
estate by the liquidator in any court of
compétent jurisdiction.
(2) Where such sale, deposit, pledge or
transfer is made within thirty days next before
the commencement of the winding-up under
this Act, or at any time afterwards, it shall be
presumed to hâve been so made in contem-
plation of insolvency. R.S., c. 296, s. 100.

**101.** (1) Every payment made within
thirty days next before the commencement of
the winding-up under this Act by a company
unable to meet its engagements in full, to a
person knowing such inability, or having
probable cause for believing such inability to
exist, is void, and the amount paid may be
recovered back by the liquidator by suit or
action in any court oî compétent jurisdiction.
(2) Where any valuable security is given up
in considération of such payment, such
security or the value thereof shall be restored
to the creditor upon the return of such
payment. R.S., c. 296, s. 101.

**102.** When a debt due or owing by the
company bas been transferred within the time
and under the circumstances mentioned in
section 101, or at any time afterwards, to a
contributory, or to any person indebted or
liable in any way to the company, who knows
or has probable cause for believing the
company to be unable to meet its engagements,
or in contemplation of its insolvency under
this Act, for the purpose of enabling such
contributory, or such person so indebted or
liable to the company, to set up, by way of
compensation or set-off, the debt so trans-
ferred, such debt shall not be set up by way
of compensation or set-off against the claim
upon such contributory or person. R.S., c. 296,
s. 102.
Appeals

**103.** Except in the Northwest Territories,
any person dissatisfied with an order or
décision of the court or a single judge in any
proceeding under this Act may,
  * (_a_) if the question to be raised on the
appeal involve? future rights,
(6) if the order or décision is likely to affect
other cases of a similar nature in the
winding-up proceedings, or
  * (_c_) if the amount involved in the appeal
exceeds five hundred dollars,
by leave of a judge of the court, or by leave
of the court or a judge of the court to which
the appeal lies, appeal therefrom. R.S., c. 296,
s. 103.
JOi. Such appeal lies to the highest court
of final resort in or for the province or
territory in which the proceeding originated.
R.S., c. 296, s. 104.

**105.** In the Northwest Territories, any
person dissatisfied with an order or décision
of the court or a single judge, in any
proceeding under this Act may, by leave of a
judge of the Suprême Court of Canada,
appeal therefrom to the Suprême Court of
Canada. R.S., c. 296, s. 105.

**106.** AU appeals shall be regulated, as far
^as possible, according to the practice in other
cases of the court appealed to, but no appeal
hereinbefore authorized shall be entertained
unless the appellant has, within fourteen days
from the rendering of the order or décision,
or within such further time as the court or
judge appealed from, or, in the Northwest
Territories, a judge of the Suprême Court of
Canada, allows, taken proceedings therein to
perfect his appeal, nor unless, within that
time, he has made a deposit or given sufficient
security according to the practice of the court
appealed to, that he will duly prosecute the
appeal and pay such damages and costs as
maj' be awarded to the respondent, R.S., c.
296, s. 106.

**107.** Where the party appellant does not
proceed with his appeal, according to this Act
and the rules of practice applicable, the court
appealed to, on the application of the
may dismiss the appeal with or
costs. R.S., c. 296, s. 107.

**108.** An appeal, if the amount involved
therein exceeds two thousand dollars, lies by
of a judge of the Suprême Court of
Canada to that Court from the highest court
of final resort in or for the province or
territory in which the proceeding originated.
R.S., c. 296, s. 108.
Procédure

**109.** In ail proceedings connected with the
Company, a liquidator shall be described as
the "liquidator of the (name of company)",
and not by his individual name only. R.S., c.
296, s. 109.

**110.** The proceedings under a winding-up
order shall be carried on as nearly as may be
in the same manner as an ordinary suit,
action or proceeding within the jurisdiction
of the court. R.S., c. 296, s. 110.

**111.** The powers conferred by this Act
upon the court may, subject to the appeal
provided for in this Act, be exercised by a
single judge thereof ; and such powers may be
exercised in chambers, either during term or
in vacation. R.S., c. 296, s. 111.

**112.** After a winding-up order is made the
court may, subject to an appeal according to
the practice of the court in like cases, from
time to time as to the court may seem meet,
by order of référence, refer and delegate,
according to the practice and procédure of
the court, to any officer of the court any of
the powers conferred upon the court by this
Act. R.S., c. 296, s. 112.

**113.** The court has the power and jurisdic-
tion to cause or allow the service of process or
proceedings under this Act to be made on
persons out of the jurisdiction of the court, in
the same manner, and with the like effect, as
in ordinary actions or suits within the ordinary
of the court. R.S., c. 296, s. 113.

**114.** Every order of the court or judge for
the payment of money or costs, charges or
expenses made under this Act shall be deemed
a judgment of the court, and may be enforced
against the person or goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of the person ordered to
pay, in the manner in which judgments or
decrees of any superior court obtained in any
suit may bind lands or be enforced in the
province where the court making the order is
situated, R.S., c. 296, s. 114.

**115.** The practice with respect to the
discovery of assets of judgment debtors, from
time to time in force in the superior courts or
in any superior court in the province where
any such order is made, is applicable to and
may be availed of in like manner for the
discovery of the assets of any person who by
such order is ordered to pay any money or
costs, charges or expenses. R.S., c. 296, s. 115.
1 16. Debts due to any person against
whom such order for the payment of money,
costs or expenses has been obtained, may, in
any province where the attachment and
garnishment of debts is allowed by law, be
attached and garnished in the same manner
as debts in such province due to a judgment
debtor may be attached and garnished by a
judgment créditer. R.S., c. 296, s. 116.

**117.** In any action, suit, proceeding or
contestation under this Act, the court may
order the issue of a writ of subpoena ad
testificandum or of subpoena duces tecum,
commanding the attendance, as a witness, of
any person who is within Canada. R.S., c.
296, s. 117.

**118.** The court may, at any time before or
after it has made a winding-up order, upon
proof being given that there is reasonable
cause for believing that any contributory or
any past or présent director, manager, officer
or employée of the company is about to quit
Canada or otherwise abscond, or to remove or
conceal any of his goods or chattels, for the
purpose of evading payment of calls, or for
avoiding examination in respect of the affairs
of the company, cause such person to be
arrested, and his books, papers, moneys.
winding-up order, summon before it or before
any person named by it, any officer of the
Company or person known or suspected to
bave in his possession any of the estate or
effects of the company, or supposed to be
indebted to the company, or anj- person whom
the court deems capable of giving information
concerning the trade, dealings, estate or
effects of the company. R.S., c. 296, s. 119.

**120.** If any person so summoned, after
being tendered a reasonable sum for his
expenses, refuses, without a lawful excuse, to
attend at the time appointed, the court may
cause such person to be apprehended and
brought up for examination. R.S., c. 296,
s. 120.
12 1. The court may require any such
officer or person to produce before the court,
any book, paper, deed, writing or other
document in his custody or power relating to
the company. R.S., c. 296, s. 121.

**122.** If any person claims any lien on
papers, deeds, writings or documents produced
by him, such production is without préjudice
to such lien, and the court has jurisdiction in
the winding-up to détermine ail questions
relating to such lien. R.S., c. 296, s. 122.

**123.** The court or person so named may
examine, upon oath, either by word of raouth
or upon written interrogatories, any person
appearing or brought up in the manner
aforesaid, concerning the affairs, dealings,
estate or effects of the company, and may
reduce to writing the answers of any such
person, and require him to subscribe thesame.
R.S., c. 296, s. 123.

**124.** (1) After a winding-up order has been
made, the court may make such order for the
inspection, by the creditors, shareholders,
members or contributories of the company, of
its books and papers, as the court thinks just.
(2) Any books and papers in the possession
the Company may be inspectée! in conform-
with the order of the court, but not further
otherwise. R.S., c. 296, s. 124.

**125.** When in the course of the winding-
up of the business of a company under this
Act, it appears that any past or présent
director, manager, liquidator, receiver,
employée or officer of such company has
misapplied or retained in his own hands, or
become liable or accountable for any moneys
of the company, or been guilty of any
misfeasance or breach of trust in relation to
the company, the court may, on the applica-
tion of any liquidator, or of any creditor or
contributory of the company, notwithstanding
that the offence is one for which the offender
is criminally liable, examine into the conduct
of such director, manager, liquidator, receiver,
officer or employée, and, upon such examina-
tion, may make an order requiring him to
repay any moneys so misapplied or retained,
or for which he has become liable or
accountable, together with interest, at such
rate as the court thinks just, or to contribute
such sums of money to the assets of the
company, by way of compensation in respect
of such misapplication, rétention, misfeasance
or breach of trust, as the court thinks fit. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 125.

**126.** The court may, by anj- order made
after the winding-up order and the appoint-
ment of a liquidator, dispense with notice to
creditors, contributories, shareholders or mem-
bers of the company required by this Act,
where in its discrétion such notice may
properly be dispensed with. R.S., c. 296,
s. 126.

**127.** The courts of the various provinces,
and the judges of those courts respectively,
are auxiliary to one another for the purposes
of this Act ; and the winding-up of the
business of the company or any matter or
proceeding relating thereto may be transferred
from one court to another with the concur-
rence, or by the order or orders of the two
courts, or by an order of the Suprême Court
of Canada. R.S.,c. 296, s. 127.

**128.** When any order made by one court
is required to be enforced by another court,
office copy of the order so made, certified
the clerk or other proper officer of the
that made the order, under the seal of
court, shall be produced to the proper
officer of the court required to enforce the
order. R.S., c. 296, s. 128.

**129.** The court required to enforce the
order mentioned in section 128 shall, upon
such production of the certified copy of the
order, take the same proceedings thereon for
enforcing the order as if it were the order of
that court. R.S., c. 296, s. 129.

**130.** (1) The rules of procédure, for the
time being, as to amendments of pleadings
and proceedings in the court, apply, as far as
practicable, to ail pleadings and proceedings
under this Act.
(2) Any court before which such proceedings
are being carried on has full power and
authority to apply to such proceedings the
appropriate rules of such court as to amend-
ments. R.S., c. 296, s. 130.
13 1. No pleading or proceeding is void by
reason of any irregularity or default that may
be amended or disregarded ; but the same
may be dealt with according to the rules and
practice of the court in cases of irregularity
or default. R.S., c. 296, s. 131.

**132.** Any powers by this Act conferred on
the court are in addition to, and not in
restriction of any other powers at law or in
equity of instituting proceedings against any
contributory, or the estate of any contributory,
or against any debtor of the company, or his
estate, for the recovery of any call or other
sum due from such contributory, debtor, or
estate ; and such proceedings may be instituted
accordingly. R.S., c. 296, s. 132.

**133.** The court may, as to ail matters
relating to the winding-up, hâve regard, so
far as it deems just, to the wishes of the
creditors, contributories, shareholders or mem-
as proved to it by any sufficient évidence.
c. 296, s. 133.

**134.** (1) The court if satisfied that, with
to the whole or any portion of the
the interests of creditors, claim-
ants or shareholders can be classified, may,
after notice by advertisement or otherwise,
nominate and appoint a soliciter and counsel
to represent each or any class for the purpose
of the proceedings, and ail the persons
composing any such class are bound by the
acts of the soliciter and counsel so appointed,
and service upon such soliciter of notices,
orders, or other proceedings of which service
is required, shall for ail purposes be, and be
deemed to be, good and sufficient service
thereof upon ail the persons composing the
class represented by him.
(2) The court may, by the order appointing
a soliciter and counsel for any class, or by
subséquent order, provide for the payment of
the costs of such soliciter and counsel by the
liquidator of the company eut of the assets of
the company, or eut of such portion thereof
as to the court seems just and proper. R.S., c.
296, s. 134.

**135.** The liquidator is subject to the
summary jurisdiction of the court in the same
manner and to the same extent as the ordinary
officers of the court are subject to its
jurisdiction ; and the performance of his duties
may be compelled by order of the court. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 135.

**136.** Ail remédies sought or demanded for
enforcing any claim for a debt, privilège,
mortgage, lien or right of property upon, in
or to any effects or property in the hands,
possession or custody of a liquidator, may be
obtained by an order of the court on summarj'
pétition, and not by any action, suit,
attachment, seizure or other proceeding of
any kind whatever. R.S., c. 296, s. 136.
Rules, Régulations and Forms

**137.** (1) A majority of the judges of the
court, of which the chief justice shall be one,
from time to time, make, frame and
the forms, rules and régulations to be
foUowed and observed in proceedings under
this Act. and make rules as to the costs, fées
and charges which shall or may be had, taken
or paid in ail such cases by or to attorneys,
solicitors or counsel, and by or to officers of
courts, whether for the officers or for the
Crown, and by or to sheriffs, or other persons.
or for any ser\-ice performed or work done
under this Act.
(2) In Ontario the judges of the Suprême
Court of Ontario, and in Québec the judges
of the Court of Queen's Bench, or a majority
of such judges of which the chief justice shall
be one. shall make and settle such forms, rules
and régulations. R.S., c. 296, s. 137.

**138.** Until such forms, rules and régula-
tions are made, the various forms and
procedtires, including the tariff of costs, fées
and charges in cases under this Act. shall.
unless otherwise specially provided. be the
same as nearly as may be as those of the court
in other cases. R.S., c. 296. s. 138.
Unclaimed Deposits

**139.** (1) Ail dividends deposited in a bank
and remaining unclaimed at the time of the
final winding-up of the business of the
Company shall be left for three years in the
bank where they are deposited, subject to the
claim of the persons entitled thereto.
(2) If such dividends are unclaimed at the
expiration of three years aforesaid they shall
be paid over by such bank, with interest
accrued thereon, to the Minister.
(3) If such dividends are afterwards duly
claimed they shall. with such interest. be paid
over to the persons entitled thereto. R.S., c.

**296.** s. 139.

**140.** The money deposited in the bank by
the liquidator after the final winding-up of
the business of a company shall be left for
three years in the bank, subject to be claimed
by the persons entitled thereto, and if not
then paid out to such persons. shall be then
over. with the interest accrued thereon,
to the Minister, and if afterwards claimed
be paid, with such interest, to the persons
entitled to the same. R.S., c. 296, s. 140.
Offences and Penalties
\4r\. When a winding-up order is made, if
" • appears m . the , course oi ,• such i wmdmg-up • i
that any past or présent director, manager,
officer or member of the company is guilty of
an offence in relation to the company for
which he is criminally liable, the court may,
on the application of any person interested
in such winding-up, or of its own motion,
direct the liquidator to institute and conduct
a prosecution or prosecutions for such offence,
and may order the costs and expenses to be
paid out of the assets of the company. R.S.,
C.296, s. 141.

**142.** Every person who, with intent to
deiraud j r j or "j deceive any person, destroys, j ^
mutilâtes, alters or falsifies any book, paper,
writing or security, or makes or is privy to the
making of an}' false or fraudulent entry in
any register, book of account or other
document belonging to the company, the
business of which is being wound up under
this Act, is guilty of an indictable offence and
liable to imprisonment in the penitentiary for
any term not less than two years, or to
imprisonment in any gaol or in any place of
confinement other than a penitentiary for
any term less than two years, with or without
hard labour. R.S., c. 296, s. 142.

**143.** (1) An}' liquidator, director, manager,
rr- i e
receiver, officer or employée of a company,
failing to comply with the requirements or
directions of any order made by the court
under this Act, is guilty of contempt of court
and is subject to ail process and punishments
of such court for contempt.
(2) Any liquidator so failing maj- in the
discrétion of the court be removed from office
as such liquidator. R.S., c. 296, s. 143.

**144.** Any refusai on the part of the
Président, directors, officers or employées of
a company to give ail information possessed
by them respectively as to the affairs of the
companj' required by the account ant or other
person ordered by the court under this Part
to inquire into the affairs of the company
and to report thereon, is a contempt of court,
such président, directors, officers or
are subject to ail process and
of such court for contempt. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 144.

**145.** Every liquidator who does net within
three days after the date of the final winding-
up of the business of the company, deposit in
the bank appointed or designated as herein-
before provided, any money belonging to the
estate of which he is such liquidator, then in
bis hands and net required for any other
purpose authorized by this Act, with an
account of such money, and a sworn statement
that such money is ail that he has in his
hands, shall incur a penalty net exceeding
ten dollars, and not less than ten per cent per
annum interest upon the sums in his hands
for every day after the expiration of the said
three days on which he neglects or delays
such payment. R.S., c. 296, s. 145.

**146.** Every person being brought up for
examination before the court after the court
has made a winding-up order, or appearing
before the court for such examination, who
refuses without lawful excuse to answer any
question put to him or to subscribe any answer
made by him on such examination, is guiltj'
of contempt of court, and is subject to ail
process and punishments of such court for
contempt. R.S., c. 296, s. 146.
Evidence

**147.** Where the business of a company is
being wound up under this Act, ail books of
the company and of the liquidators are, as
between the contributories of the company,
prima fade proof of the truth of ail matters
purporting to be therein recorded. R.S., c. 296,
s. 147.

**148.** Every affidavit, affirmation or décla-
ration required to be sworn or made under or
for the purposes of this Act, or to be used in
the court in any proceeding under this Act,
ma}' be sworn or made in Canada before a
liquidator, judge, notary public, commissioner
for taking affidavits or justice of the peace;
and out of Canada, before any judge of a
court of record, any commissioner for taking
affidavits to be used in any court in Canada,
any notary public, the chief municipal officer
of any town or city, any British consul or
or any person authorized by or
under any statute of Canada, or of any
province, to take affidavits. R.S., c. 296,
s. 148.

**149.** Ail courts, judges, justices, commis-
sioners and persons acting judicially shall
take judicial notice of the seal, or stamp or
signature, as the case may be, of any such
court, liquidator, judge, notary public, com-
missioner, justice, chief municipal officer,
consul, vice-consul, or other person, attached,
appended or subscribed to any such affidavit,
affirmation or déclaration or to any other
document to be used for the purposes of this
Act, R.S., c. 296, s. 149.

**150.** When any order made by one court
is required to be enforced by another court,
the production of an office copy of the order
so made certified by the clerk or other proper
officer of the court that made the order, under
the seal of such court, is sufficient évidence
of such order having been made. R.S., c. 296,
s. 150.

**151.** The absence of mention in the
minutes of any meeting of contributories,
creditors, shareholders or members under this
Act, of the production of the liquidator's bank
pass-book, is prima facie proof that such pass-
book was not produced at such meeting. R.S.,
c. 296, s. 151.

## PART II

## BANKS

**152.** This Part applies to banks only, not
including savings banks. R.S., c. 296, s. 152.

**153.** (1) The application for a winding-up
order shall be made by a creditor for a sum
of not less than one thousand dollars.
(2) The court shall, before making the
ascertaining their respective wishes as to the
appointment of liquidators. R.S., c. 296,
s. 153.

**154.** (1) The court may appoint a person
to act as chairman of the meeting of
shareholders, and in default of such appoint-
ment, the président of the bank, or other
person who usually présides at a meeting of
shareholders, shall be chairman.
(2) The court may also appoint a person to
act as chairman of the meeting of creditors,
and in default of such appointment, the
creditors at the meeting shall appoint a
chairman. R.S., c. 296, s. 154.

**155.** (1) In taking a vote at the meeting of
shareholders, regard shall be had to the
number of votes conferred by law, or by the
régulations of the bank, on each shareholder
présent or represented at such meeting.
(2) In taking a vote at the meeting of
creditors, regard shall be had to the amount
of the debt due to each creditor. R.S., c. 296,
s. 155.

**156.** The chairman of each meeting shall
report the proceedings of the meeting to the
court, and, if a winding-up order is made, the
court shall appoint one or more liquidators
not exceeding three to be selected, in its
discrétion, after such hearing of the parties as
it deems expédient, from among the persons
nominated by the majorities and minorities
of the shareholders and creditors at such
meetings respectively. R.S., c. 296, s. 156.

**157.** If no one bas been so nominated, the
liquidator or liquidators shall be chosen by
the court. R.S., c. 296, s. 157.

**158.** (1) The liquidators shall ascertain as
nearly as possible the amount of notes of the
bank intended for circulation and actually
outstanding, and shall reserve dividends on
any part of the said amount in respect of
which claims are not filed, until the expiration
of at least two years after the date of the
winding-up order, or until the last dividend,
if such last dividend is not made until after
the expiration of the said time.
(2) If claims are not filed and dividends
applied for in respect of any part of the said
amount before the period limited by this
section, the dividends so reserved shall form
the last or part of the last dividend. R.S., c.
296, s. 158.

**159.** (1) Publication in the Canada Gazeffe
and in the officiai gazette of each province,
and in two newspapers issued at or nearest
the place where the head office of a bank is
situated, of notice of any proceeding of which,
under this Act, creditors should be notified, is
sufficient notice to holders of bank notes in
circulation.
(2) If the head office is situated in the
Province of Québec, one of the newspapers in
which publication is to be made shall be a
newspaper published in English and the other
a newspaper published in French. R.S., c. 296,
s. 159.

## PART III

## INSURANCE COMPANIES

**160.** (1) This Part applies only to insur-
ance companies, and the word "company"
means an insurance company.
(2) If any company, in respect of the
business of life insurance and any other class
or classes of insurance transacted by the
company in combination therewith, maintains
funds and securities separate and distinct
from the funds and securities maintained by
the company in respect of any other class or
classes of insurance business transacted by the
company, then for the purposes of this Part
"assets" means, as the circumstances may
require, either the funds and securities
maintained in respect of the life insurance
business of the company and any other
business transacted in combination therewith
or the funds and securities maintained in
respect of the other class or classes of insurance
business transacted by the company.
British Insurance Companies Act and in the
Foreign Insurance Companies Act.
(4) "Superintendent" means the Superin-
tendent of Insurance within the meaning of
the Department of Insurance Act. R.S., c. 296,
s. 160.

**161.** (j) \ company shall be deemed to be
• i ^ .^
msolvent if,
  * (_a_) being any company whatever to which
this Part applies, it has failed to pay any
undisputed claim arising under any policy
of the company, or a disputed daim after
final judgment in regular course of law, for
a space of ninety days after tender of a
legally valid discharge and after notice of
failure to pay has been given to the
Minister ;
  * (_b_) being any company registered under the
Canadian and British Insurance Companies
Act or the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,
its certificate of registry on the expiry
thereof has not been renewed within thirty
days after such expiry by reason of the
Superintendent having made a report to
the Minister that, from a statement of the
affairs of the company, such company is
not in a condition to meet its liabilities ; or
  * (_c_) being any company so registered, the
certificate of registry has been withdrawn
and has not been renewed within thirty
days thereafter and it is expressly provided
in the Act under which the company is
registered that in such case the company
shall be deemed to be insolvent and be
subject to be wound up under this Act.
(2) When any company is deemed to be
insolvent under this Act or any other Act of
the Parliament of Canada, the Attorney
General of Canada, on the request of the
Minister, may apply to the court for an order
that the company be wound up. R.S., c. 296,
s. 161.

**162.** (1) Subject to this Act, claims shall
paid in the following order of priority :
  * (_a_) firstly, costs of liquidation;
(6) secondly, claims of preferred creditors,
specified in section 72;
  * (_c_) thirdly, claims of policyholders of the
Company ranking as follows :
  * (_i_) if reinsurance is not effected as
hereinafter provided, claims that hâve
arisen under the policies of the company,
in accordance with the terms thereof,
prior to the date of the filing of the
statement of the liquidator in the Depart-
ment of Insurance as hereinafter provided,
less any amount previously advanced bj-
the Company on the security of the
policies, and the claims of policyholders
to the value of their policies computed as
hereinafter provided ; or
  * (_ii_) if reinsurance is effected, firstly,
claims that hâve arisen under the policies
of the Company, in accordance with the
terms thereof, of which notice is received
by the company prior to the date the
reinsurance is effected, less any amount
previously advanced by the company on
the security of the policies; secondly, the
considération payable for the reinsurance
of policies under which no claims hâve
arisen.
(2) Creditors of the company, other than
policyholders, reinsurers if any, and the
aforementioned preferred creditors, are enti-
tled to receive a dividend on their claims only
if the assets are more than sufficient to pay
the claims specified in subsection (1).
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Part,
if the company is a British company registered
under the Canadian and British Insurance
Companies Act, or a foreign companj' regis-
tered under the Foreign Insurance Companies
Act, no claim, after the payment of costs of
liquidation, other than claims of the preferred
creditors hereinbefore specified, holders of
policies of a class of insurance for which the
company was so registered, and reinsurers of
policies, if any, shall rank against the
assets in Canada maintained by the company
under and for the purposes of those Acts, if
assets are maintained solely for the
protection of policyholders in Canada ; and
the balance, if any. of the said assets,
remaining after the said claims are paid, shall
be applied by the liquidator in satisfaction of
the claims of any other creditors of the
companj- in Canada, but not including
policyholders of any such company in respect
of a class of insurance for which the company
was not registered under either of the Acts
aforesaid.
(4) The liquidator may, with the approval
of the court and the Treasury Board, release
to the company any balance of the assets in
Canada remaining after payment of claims
in the order of priority prescribed bj' subsection
(3). R.S., c. 296, s. 162.

**163.** (1) The liquidator may, without the
consent of the policyholders, arrange for the
reinsurance of the policies of the company, in
the case of a company other than a British or
foreign company, and of its policies in Canada
in the case of a British or foreign company,
in some company or companies registered
under the Canadian and British Insurance
Companies Act or the Foreign Insurance
Companies Act, and in such case the reinsur-
ance shall be in lieu of the claim for the value
of their policies computed as hereinafter
provided.
(2) Where the assets of the company are
insufficient to provide for the preferred claims
specified in section 72 and for claims under
the policies of the compan\- of which notice
has been received by the company prior to
the date of reinsurance, and for the reinsurance
in full of the policies of the company, the
reinsurance may be effected for such a
percentage of the full amount of the policies
as the said assets will secure.
(3) No contract of reinsurance made in
pursuance of this section becomes effective
until approved by the court and by the
Treasurv Board. R.S., c. 296, s. 163.

**164.** (1) Where the reinsurance is not
effected, holders of policies of ail classes of
insurance on which no claims hâve arisen in
to the date of the winding-up order are
entitled to claim against the assets of the
Company for the value of their respective
policies computed as of the date of the
winding-up order in accordance with such
bases, methods and rules of computation as
the Treasury Board may deem just and
équitable, less any amount previously
advanced by the company on the security of
the policies.
(2) In prescribing bases, methods and rules
of computation, the Treasury Board shall
take into considération the prospective indem-
nities, benefits and equities guaranteed under
the terms of the policies of the several classes
thereof (including any bonus or other addi-
tional indemnity or benefit granted after the
date of issue of the policy and subsisting at
the date of the winding-up order and profits
apportioned to policies but not distributed),
the prospective premium payraents, if any,
the contingencies on which the payment of
indemnities, benefits and premiums may
dépend, and such rate or rates of interest as
may be deemed appropriate, but in no case
shall the value for which a policyholder may
claim be less than the value for which he
might hâve claimed under the terms of his
policy on cancellation thereof as of the date
of the winding-up order.
(3) The bases, methods and rules of compu-
tation so prescribed by the Treasury Board
are binding on ail concerned, subject only to
revocation or amendment by the Treasury
Board.
(4) The liquidator may require the Super-
intendent to compute the values of policies
in respect of which claims are made and the
expense of such valuation at the rate of three
cents for each policj' valued shall be paid bj'
the liquidator to the Minister and applied
toward payment of the expenses of the
Department of Insurance. R.S., c. 296,
s. 164.

**165.** (1) The funds and securities of the
company in Canada that may be on deposit
with any government in Canada or with
trustées or otherwise held for the company or
for the protection of the policyholders of the
compam' of the class or classes that are
affected by the winding-up order shall, on
order of the court having jurisdiction, be
transferred to the liquidator.
(2) Where the company is a Canadian
companj' that has deposited with the govern-
ment of any state or country outside Canada,
or with any trustée or other person in such
state or country, any of its funds or securities
for the protection of the company's policy-
holders in such state or country, the liquidator
may request such government, trustée or other
person to transfer to him the said funds and
securities and on such transfer being made,
the said funds and securities shall be used for
the benefit of ail the company's policyholders
in the same manner as any other assets of the
company.
(3) Where the said government, trustée or
other person does not transfer the said funds
and securities within such period commencing
with the date of the liquidator's request
therefor as the Court may fix, the policyhold-
ers of the company, for whose protection the
said deposit was made, shall be deemed to
hâve refused the reinsurance, if any, arranged
by the liquidator, and, whether reinsurance
has been arranged or not, to hâve forfeited
ail right and claim to any share of the assets
of the company other than the funds or
securities so deposited for their protection
outside Canada. R.S., c. 296, s. 165.

**166.** Where a British company registered
under the Canadian and British Insurance
Companies Ad, or a foreign company regis-
tered under the Foreign Insurance Companies
Act, is in liquidation in the country in which
its head office is situated, the Treasury Board
ma}', if thej' deem it advisable and in the
interests of the policyholders in Canada,
authorize the liquidator, subject to the
approval of the court, to transfer the assets in
Canada of the company to the liquidator in
such country. R.S., c. 296, s. 166.

**167.** (1) The liquidator shall, without the
filing of any claim, notice or évidence, or the
taking of any action by any person, prépare
or cancelled policy, taking cognizance
in this connection of ail claims that hâve
arisen in accordance with the terms of the
policies of which he bas notice, and such
statement shall show the amount, determined
as hereinbefore provided in respect of policy-
holders, for which each such person is to rank
as a claimant or a creditor and every such
person shall be collocated and ranked as, and
is entitled to the right of, a claimant or a
creditor for the amount so ascertained by the
liquidator, without filing any claim, notice or
évidence, or taking any action; but any such
collocation may be contested by any person
interested, and any person who is not
collocated, or who is dissatisfied with the
amount for which he is collocated, may file
bis own daim.
(2) The liquidator or the court may rectify
any such statement on account of omissions
or errors therein notified to the liquidator or
discovered by him at any time before the
completion of the liquidation, and only the
claims appearing in such statement oramend-
ed statement shall be regarded in the
distribution of the assets. R.S., c. 296, s. 167.

**168.** Where the assets are not sufficient to
cover in full ail claims appearing in the
statement or amended statement, the policy-
holders are not barred from any recourse they
hâve, either in law or equity, against the
company issuing the policy or against any
shareholder or director thereof, except in
respect of the share, if any, received in the
distribution of the assets aforesaid. R.S., c.
296, s. 168.

**169.** (1) A copy of the statement men-
tioned in section 168, certified by the
liquidator, shall be filed in the Department
of Insurance, after not less than thirty days
notice of his intention to do so has been given
by the liquidator by notice in the Canada
Gazette and in the officiai gazette of each
province, and in two newspapers issued at or
nearest the place where the head office of the
company or the chief agency of the company
in Canada, as the case may be, is situated.
(2) Any claim that has arisen under the
terms of a policy of which notice is received
the liquidator after the date of the filing
of the said statement, shall rank upon the
assets only for the value entered in the said
statement, unless the assets are sufficient to
pay ail claimants in full, and in such case,
the policyholder shall rank as a créditer for
the balance of his claim. R.S., c. 296, s. 169.

**170.** The liquidator shall also forthwith
send by mail prepaid, a notice of such filing
to each claimant or créditer named in the
statement, addressed to the latest address on
record with the company, stating therein the
amount for which the créditer or claimant is
entitled to rank against the assets of the
company. R.S., c. 296, s. 170.

**171.** Where the company is registered
under the Canadian and British Insurance
Companies Ad or under the Foreign Insurance
Companies Act, the liquidator shall report to
the Superintendent once in every six months,
or oftener, as the Superintendent may require,
on the condition of the affairs of the company,
with such particulars as the Superintendent
may require. R.S., c. 296, s. 171.

**172.** Publication in the Canada Gazette.
and in the officiai gazette oî each province,
and in two newspapers published at or nearest
the place where the head office or chief
agency in Canada, as the case may be, of the
company is situated, of notice of any
proceedings of which, under this Act, creditors
should be notified, is sufficient notice to
holders of policies in respect of which no
notice of claim has been received. R.S., c. 296,
s. 172.

**173.** Nothing in this Part préjudices or
affects the priority of any mortgage, lien or
charge upon the property of the companj'.
R.S., c. 296, s. 173.
