
# CHAPTER W-7
An Act respecting weights and measures

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** This Act may be cited as the Weights
and Measures Act. R.S., c. 292, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** In this Act
"inspector" means an inspector of weights
and measures appointed under this Act,
and includes any person authorized bj- the
Minister to perform the duties of an
inspector;
"manufacturer" includes a person who assem-
bles component parts whether manuf actured
by him or not ;
"measure", with respect to a linear or volume
measuring device, means a static measure
having no moving parts incorporated there-
in, but includes a roller tape-measure of
any material ;
"measuring machine" means a measuring
device having any moving part incorporated
therein or associated therewith, and includes
a tank or other réceptacle having a tap or
other mechanical means of discharge ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Consumer
and Corporate Affairs ;
"pound" means the Canadian standard pound
defined in the Length and Mass Units Act
and set forth in Schedule II ;
"pre-packaged goods" means goods packaged
in a wrapper or container ready for retail
sale; and, if goods packaged in a wrapper
or container are found in premises where
such goods are packaged or kept for sale,
they shall prima facie be deemed to be
packaged ready for retail sale ;
means dealing in goods, wares or
merchandise sold by weight or measure, or
performing the service of weighing or
measuring, or performing a service for which
payment is determined by weight or
measure ;
"trader" means any person engaged in trade ;
"yard" means the Canadian standard yard
defined in the Length and Mass Units Act
and set forth in Schedule II. R.S., c. 292, s.
2; 1968-69, c. 28, s. 104.

## STANDARDS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

**3.** Except as otherwise provided in this Act,
the weights and measures used throughout
Canada shall be uniform. R.S., c. 292, s. 3.

**4.** The standards of measure and weight,
more particularly described in Schedule I,
that by the Weights and Measures Act, chapter
212 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927,
were designated as departmental standards
and hâve been calibrated and certified by the
National Research Council of Canada under
the Length and Mass Units Act, shall remain
in the custody of the Minister and shall be
known as référence standards of weight and
measure. R.S., c. 292, s. 4.
5, Local Standards derived from the référ-
ence standards and compared and verified
under the direction of the Minister in
accordance with this Act shall be used by
inspectors for the purpose of inspection and
vérification of weights and measures and for
any other purpose prescribed or authorized
bv this Act. R.S., c. 292, s. 5.

**6.** The bronze bar and platinum-iridium
weights, more particularly described in
Schedule IV, that were placed in the custody
of the Minister of Inland Revenue as provided
in An Act respecting Weights and Measures,
chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1873,
and on the 31st dav of December 1951 were in
custody of the Minister of Trade and
and the Parliamentary copies
thereof, more particularly described in
IV, that were placed in the custody
of the Speaker of the Senate as provided in
that Act and on the 31st day of December
1951 were in the custody of the Speaker of
the Senate, shall, subject to any order of the
Governor in Council as to the custody thereof,
be preserved in the custody of the National
Research Council of Canada. R.S., c. 292, s.

**6.**

**7.** The Minister shall, from time to time,
ç^^gg ^q jjg niade such new dénominations of
référence standards as are required in addition
to those mentioned in Schedule I and shall
cause them to be calibrated and certified by
the National Research Council of Canada,
and may cause local standards derived
therefrom to be made for use by inspectors.
R.S., c. 292, s. 7.
g. The Govemor in Council may déclare
^^^^ ^ référence standard of any dénomination
shall cease to be a référence standard. R.S., c.
292, s. 8.

## CANADIAN MEASURES OF LENGTH

**9.** (1) The yard is the only unit or standard
measure of extension from which ail other
Canadian measures of extension, whether of
length, of surface or of volume, are derived.
(2) One-third of the yard is a foot and the
twelfth part of a foot is an inch.
(3) The rod, pôle or perch, in length,
contains five and one-half yards.
(4) The chain contains twenty-two yards,
and the link is the one-hundredth part of the
chain.
(5) The furlong contains two hundred and
twenty yards.
(6) The mile contains one thousand seven
hundred and sixty yards. R.S., c. 292, s. 9.

**10.** (1) The rood of land contains one
thousand two hundred and ten square yards.
(2) The acre of land contains four thousand
eight hundred and forty square yards.
(3) The cord contains one hundred and
twenty-eight cubic feet. R.S., c. 292, s. 10.
^^* ^^^ ^^ ^^^ Province of Québec, the
measures of length and superficies for ail land
comprised in those parts of the Province
originally granted under the seigniorial
tenure, are French measure, the ratio and
proportion of which to the Canadian standard
measures are as follows, that is to say :
  * (_a_) the foot, French measure or Paris foot,
contains twelve inches and seven hundred
and eighty-nine thousandths of an inch;
(6) the arpent, when used as a measure of
length, is one hundred and eighty French
feet and, when used as a measure of
superficies, is thirty-two thousand four
hundred square French feet ;
  * (_c_) the perch, as a measure of length,
contains eighteen French feet; and, as a
measure of superficies, contains three hun-
dred and twenty-four square French feet.
(2) This section applies only to territorial
measurement.
(3) jhe French measure toise and aune
shall not be used. R.S., c. 292, s. 11.

## CANADIAN MEASURES OF WEIGHT AND

## CAPACITV

**12.** (1) The pound is the only unit or
standard measure of weight from which ail
other Canadian weights and measures having
référence to weight are derived.
(2) One-sixteenth part of the pound is an
ounce.
(3) One-sixteenth part of an ounce is a
dram.
(4) One seven-thousandth part of a pound
is a grain.
(5) A cental or hundred weight is one
hundred pounds.
(6) A ton is twenty centals or two thousand
pounds.
(7) An ounce troy is four hundred and
eighty grains.
  * (_g_) Ail weights mentioned in this section,
except the ounce troy, shall be deemed to be
avoirdupois weights. R.S., c. 292, s. 12.

**13.** (1) The unit or Standard measure of
from which are derived ail other
Canadian measures of capacity, whether of
liquids or otherwise, is the gallon, which
contains ten Canadian standard pounds
weight of distilled water weighed in dry air
against brass weights of density 0.30346 of a
pound per cubic inch with the water and air
at sixty-two degrees of Fahrenheit's thermom-
eter and the barometer at thirty inches.
(2) The quart contains one-fourth of the
gallon.
(3) The pint contains one-eighth of the
gallon,
(4) A peck contains two gallons.
(5) A bushel contains eight gallons.
(6) The one hundred and sixtieth part of
the gallon by volume is a fluid ounce. R.S.,
c. 292, s. 13.

**14.** (1) The tables in Schedule III shall be
deemed to set forth the équivalents in
Canadian weights and measures of the weights
and measures therein expressed in terms of
the metric system.
(2) The tables in Schedule III may be used
for Computing and expressing weights and
measures in the terms of the metric system of
weights and measures. R.S., c. 292, s. 14.

**15.** Such weights and measures as the
Governor in Council may designate may be
used in the Province of Newfoundland for
such period as the Governor in Council may
prescribe. R.S., c. 292, s. 15.

## ADMINISTRATION

**16.** Once at least in every five years, the
Minister shall cause the référence standards
to be calibrated and certified by the National
Research Council of Canada. R.S., c. 292,
s. 16.

**17.** When a référence standard or a local
standard becomes lost or destroyed or defaced
or otherwise injured, the Minister shall cause
the standard to be restored. R.S., c. 292, s. 17.

**18.** The Minister shall hâve the custody of
ail balances, apparatus, books, documents and
things used by the department in connection
with the référence standards or local standards
or relating thereto. R.S., c. 292, s. 18.

**19.** (1) A Director of Standards, hereinafter
called the Director, may be appointed in the
manner authorized by law, who shall, under
the direction of the Minister, hâve the gênerai
supervision and direction throughout Canada
of the work and inspection necessary to give
effect to this Act.
(2) From time to time, the Director shall
cause the local standards to be calibrated,
adjusted if necessary, and certified.
(3) A certificate purporting to be signed by
the Director or by any person authorized by
the Director is évidence of the facts stated
therein and that the calibration therein
described has been performed. R.S., c. 292,
s. 19.

**20.** A record shall be kept under direction
of the Minister showing the particulars of ail
calibrations of référence standards and local
standards. R.S., c. 292, s. 20.

## MARKING OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

**21.** (1) Every weight used in trade or held
in possession for use in trade, except when
the small size of the weight renders it
impracticable, shall hâve the dénomination
thereof marked on the top or side thereof in
legible figures and letters by stamping or
engraving.
(2) Every measure of capacity used in trade
or held in possession for use in trade shall
hâve the dénomination thereof marked on
the outside of such measure in legible figures
and letters by stamping or engraving.
(3) Every weighing machine and measuring
machine used in trade or held in possession
for use in trade, and the weights or poises or
other things used therewith, shall be marked
in such place and in such manner as may be
prescribed by régulation.
(4) A weight, measure, weighing machine
or measuring machine not marked in con-
formity with this section shall not be stamped
with a stamp of vérification under this Act.
R.S., c. 292, s. 21.

## USE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

**22.** (1) Every transaction, that is to say,
every contract, sale, dealing, service rendered
or act performed in Canada, in respect of any
work, goods, wares or merchandise in terms of
weight or measure, shall be made or performed
in terms of Canadian standard weight or
measure or the metric équivalent thereof , and
every such transaction that is not so made or
performed is void.
(2) Every person who certifies or désignâtes
the weight or measure of an\-thing weighed
or measured by him shall express such weight
or measure in terms of Canadian standard
weights or measures or the metric équivalent
thereof.
(3) Every such transaction by weight, except
transactions in precious metals or precious
stones and such other transactions as may be
designated by régulation, shall be avoirdupois
weight or the metric équivalent thereof. R.S.,
c. 292, s. 22.

**23.** Ail tolls and duties charged or collected
according to weight or measure shall be
charged and collected according to one of the
Canadian weights or measures or the metric
équivalent thereof, or to some multiple or
fraction thereof. R.S., c. 292, s. 23.

**24.** Régional or customary standards of
weights or measures shall not be used. R.S., c.
292, s. 24.

**25.** When a static measure of capacity is
used in trade to measure a commodity, it
shall be Completel}- filled and stricken with a
straight, round stick or relier of the same
diameter from end to end, or, if the commodity
cannot be stricken bj* reason of its shape or
size, the measure shall be filled in ail parts as
nearlv to the level of the brim as possible.
R.S.,'c. 292, s. 25.

**26.** (1) Except as may be provided by
régulation, where pre-packaged goods are sold
or displayed for sale b}' weight or measure,
the net quantity in the wrapper or container
shall be correctly indicated on the wrapper or
container or on a ticket, card or label displaj-ed
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), goods
that were packaged by weight or measure
if sold or displayed for sale, be deemed
to hâve been sold or displayed for sale by
weight or measure. R.S., c. 292, s. 26.

## INSPECTORS AND rNSPECTION

**27.** (1) InspectoFS of weights and measures
and such other officers as are required for the
enforcement and administration of this Act
may be appointed in the manner authorized
by law.
(2) No person appointed or employed in
the administration or enforcement of this Act
shall make or sell weights, measures, weighing
machines, measuring machines or parts thereof
but, under spécial instructions from the
Minister in that behalf, an inspector may
adjust or alter any weight verified by him or
submitted to him for vérification, and collect
therefor such feé as is authorized by the
Governor in Council. R.S., c. 292, s. 27.

**28.** Each inspector shall, on appointment,
take an oath for the faithful discharge of his
duties, and shall be bonded, in a sum fixed
by the Governor in Council, for the safe
custody and préservation of the standard
weights and measures and other apparatus
entrusted to him, for their delivery over to
his successor in case of his résignation or
removal from office, and for duly accounting
for ail mone^'s collected by him. R.S., c. 292,
s. 28.

**29.** The Standards and other apparatus in
the custody of an inspector shall be used
solely for the purpose of comparing and
verifying weights, measures, weighing
machines and measuring machines, or other-
wise in the administration and enforcement
of this Act. R.S., c. 292, s. 29.

**30.** Unless other^vise provided by régula-
tion, ail weights, measures, weighing machines
and measuring machines authorized by or
under this Act for use in trade shall be
inspected, verified and stamped at least once
every year. R.S., c. 292, s. 30.

**31.** (1) Within his division, the inspector
at ail proper times, carefully examine
compare ail weights, measures, weighing
and measuring machines authorized
or under this Act for use in trade.
(2) An inspecter may also, at any time,
inspect, verify, stamp and certify any weights,
measures, weighing machines and measuring
machines at any place in bis division.
(3) When an inspecter finds a weight,
measure, weighing machine or measuring
machine to be correct and just, he shall stamp
the same in such manner as is, from time to
time, directed by the Minister, who shall
furnish such stamps, brands and implements
as he thinks proper for that purpose. R.S., c.
292, s. 31.

**32.** An inspecter may, at ail reasonable
times, without notice, enter any shop, store,
warehouse, stall, yard or place whatever,
within bis division, where any commodity is
bought, sold, exposed or kept for sale, or
where a charge is made for the service of
weighing or measuring or for the carriage or
conveyance of any thing by weight or measure,
and
  * (_a_) there examine ail weights, measures,
weighing machines and measuring
machines, and compare them and try them
with the local standards of weight and
measure in bis possession ; and
(6) inspect and check any pre-packaged
goods for the purpose of ascertaining the
weight or measure thereof or whether the
contents thereof correctly correspond to the
weight or measure indicated on the con-
tainer or otherwise. R.S., c. 292, s. 32.

**33.** (1) An inspecter shall keep a book in
wbich he shall enter a record of ail inspections
and vérifications made by him.
(2) At the time of inspection of any weight,
measure, weighing machine or measuring
machine, an inspecter shall deliver to the
owner thereof, or to the person apparently in
charge of it, a certificate under his hand
setting ferth the fact and date of such
inspection and specifying every weight, meas-
ure, weighing machine or measuring machine
that was verified or inspected.
(3) A certificate issued under subsection (2)
évidence that the inspection and vérification
been performed as described in such
certificate. R.S., c. 292, s. 33.

**34.** No weight, measure, weighing machine
•
°^ measuring machine l • duly j 1 stamped ^ j l by any
inspecter is required to be re-stamped by
reason only that it is used beyond the limits
of the inspection division within which it was
originally stamped. R.S., c. 292, s. 34.

## REGULATIONS

**35.** (1) The Govemor in Council may make
régulations for carrying the purposes and
provisions of this Act into effect and, without
restricting the generality of the foregoing,
may make régulations respecting
  * (_a_) the duties of inspectors and their
assistants ;
(6) the replacement and use of standards of
weights and measure ;
  * (_c_) the methods of inspecting, verifying and
stamping weights, measures, weighing
machines, measuring machines and local
standards and of certifying such vérifica-
tion;
  * (_d_) the amount of error that may be
tolerated in weights, measures, weighing
machines and measuring machines;
  * (_e_) the shapes, dimensions and proportions
to be required in weights, measures, weigh-
ing machines and measuring machines and
the materials of which they are made ;
(/) the marking of dénominations on
weights, measures, weighing machines and
measuring machines ;
  * (_g_) the weights, measures, weighing
machines or measuring machines that shall
or shall not be légal for use in trade and
how they shall be marked to so indicate ;
  * (_h_) the frequency with which weights,
measures, weighing machines and measur-
ing machines shall be inspected, verified or
stamped ;
  * (_i_) the requirements to be observed, the
facilities, apparatus and assistance to be
provided and the proper storage of testing
equipment to be furnished by owners of
weights, measures, weighing machines and
measuring machines for the purpose of the
inspection and vérification thereof ;
0) the form of receipts, certificates or other
documents to be given by inspectors upon
inspection and vérification and their pro-
duction at the request of an inspector;
  * (_k_) the fées to be paid to inspectors for
inspecting and verifying weights, measures,
weighing machines and measuring machines
or for weighing or measuring goods under
this Act and the time, manner and évidence
of payment thereof; and, in such cases as
he deems proper, prescribing the fées that
may be paid during a specified period, not
exceeding one year, instead of upon each
inspection and vérification, and the time,
manner and évidence of payment thereof ;
(0 the measurement of wood ;
  * (_m_) the weight of wrappers or containers of
commodities sold by weight ;
  * (_n_) the marking of wrappers or containers
of pre-packaged goods sold by weight or
measure, or on tickets, cards or labels
displayed or associated therewith, to indi-
cate the contents of the wrapper or
container;
  * (_o_) the amount of error that may be
tolerated in pre-packaged goods; and
  * (_p_) the exemption of any pre-packaged
goods from the opération of any provision
of this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act the Governor
in Council may divide the whole or any part
of Canada into inspection divisions or districts
and fix the boundaries thereof. R.S., c. 292,
s. 35.
INSPECTION FEES

**36.** Ail fees collected under this Act shall
form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund,
and, unless otherwise provided by régulation,
ail fees prescribed for any services performed
under this Act shall be paid at the time the
is performed. R.S., c. 292, s. 36.
37^ In case of dispute between a trader and
another person as to the correctness of a
weight , measure , weighing machine or measur-
ing machine that an inspecter is requested to
inspect, the fées for such inspection shall be
paid by the trader if the weight, measure or
machine is found to be incorrect and by the
other person if it is found to be correct. R.S.,
c. 292, s. 37.

**38.** (1) When any person refuses to pay
the inspection fées payable by him, on
demand of an inspecter, the inspecter may
seize sufficient of the weights, measures,
weighing machines or measuring machines for
the inspection of which the fées are due, and
retain them until the fées and ail expenses
incurred are paid.
(2) Ail fees payable under this Act are
recoverable in any court of compétent juris-
diction as a debt due to the Crown. R.S., c.
292, s. 38.

## ACCOUNTS

**39.** Separate accounts shall be kept of ail
expenditures incurred and of ail fees and
other moneys collected or received under this
Act and a statement of such accounts shall be
included in the annual report of the Minister
under the Department of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs Act. R.S., c. 292, s. 39; 1968-
69, c. 28, s. 105.

## OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

**40.** Every person is guilty of an offence
who violâtes subsection 22(1),(2) or (3). R.S.,
c. 292, s. 40.

**41.** Every trader is guilty of an offence
^j^^ ^^^^ ^ Weighing machine to weigh beyond
its capacity certified under this Act. R.S., c.
292, s. 41.

**42.** Every inspecter is guilty of an offence
who stamps any weight, measure, weighing
machine or measuring machine without hav-
ing duly compared and verified it with the
standard or other instrument provided for the
R.S., c. 292, s. 42.

**43.** (1) Except as provided in subsection
(2), every person is guilty of an offence who
delivers or causes to be sold or delivered
anything by weight, measure or number short
of the quantity purchased.
(2) When goods that are not pre-packaged
goods are sold by weight and wrapped, the
weight of the wrapper may be included in the
weight purported to be sold if it does not
exceed the tolérance that maj' be prescribed
by régulation. R.S., c. 292, s. 43.

**44.** When goods that are not pre-packaged
goods are sold by measure in a container, the
container shall not be used as a measure
unless it has been appro/ed as a measure and
is marked in accordance with this Act. R.S.,
c. 292, s. 44.

**45.** (1) Every trader is guilty of an offence
who uses in trade or who has in his possession
for use in trade any weight, measure, weighing
machine or measuring machine that is false
or unjust.
(2) For the purposes of this Act possession
of any weight, measure, weighing machine or
measuring machine by a trader shall be
deemed prima facie to be possession by him
for use in trade.
(3) Every trader who uses in trade or has in
his possession, and every dealer in weights,
measures, weighing machines or measuring
machines not manufactured by him who has
in his possession,
  * (_a_) any weight or measure that is required
by section 21 or the régulations to be
marked and is not so marked, or
(6) any weighing machine or measuring
machine that is required by section 21 or
the régulations to be marked and is not so
marked and that is required by section 31
or the régulations to be stamped by an
inspector and is not so stamped,
is guilty of an offence.
(4) An inspector may seize and confiscate
every weight or measure that is not marked
as required by section 21 and the régulations
and is in the possession of a trader or dealer
described in subsection (3), and every weight
and measure so seized and confiscated may
be disposed of as the Minister may direct.
R.S., c. 292, s. 45.

**46.** When any fraud is wilfully committed
in the use of any weight, measure, weighing
machine or measuring machine, the person
who committed the fraud and every person
who was a party to the fraud is guilty of an
offence. R.S., c. 292, s. 46.

**47.** (1) Every manufacturer or importer is
guilty of an offence who, in accordance with
the régulations, submits a weight, measure,
weighing machine or measuring machine for
inspection prior to its use and sells or otherwise
disposes of it without having marked it as
required by section 21 and the régulations.
(2) Every manufacturer or importer is guilty
/. ^r u i ^i ^ ^ j
O' ^^ ofience who has the prototype of a
measure approved under the régulations and
sells or otherwise disposes of a measure that
does not conform to such approved prototype
to a trader or dealer. R.S., c. 292, s. 47.

**48.** (1) Every manufacturer or importer of
any weight, weighing machine or measuring
machine is guilty of an offence who
  * (_a_) disposes of it before it is marked as
required by this Act or the régulations, or
(6) if it is required by this Act or the
régulations to be inspected and stamped,
disposes of it before it has been so inspected
and stamped.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to dormant
scales that cannot be properly verified until
they hâve been set upon a fixed foundation.
(3) Every manufacturer or importer of any
measure required by this Act or the régulations
to be marked or stamped who disposes of it
before it is so marked or stamped is guilty of
an offence.
(4) Every person to whom a weight, meas-
^^^' weighing machine or measuring machine
has been delivered by a trader for the purpose
of repair who, after repairing it, releases
of it before it has been inspectée!
and stamped by an inspecter under this Act,
is guilty of an offence. R.S., c. 292, s. 48.

**49.** Every person is guilty of an offence
who forges or counterfeits any mark or stamp
used for marking or stamping under this Act
or who wilfully alters any weight, measure,
weighing machine or measuring machine so
that it weighs or measures unjustly. R.S., c.
292, s. 49.

**50.** Every person is guilty of an offence
^^"^ knowingly uses, sells, utters or offers for
sale any weight, measure, weighing machine
or measuring machine that has been altered
so that it weighs or measures unjustly or who
wilfully breaks or removes the officiai seal or
mark of rejection from any such weight,
measure or machine sealed against use, except
for the purpose of repairing or adjusting it
for présentation for inspection and stamping.
R.S., c. 292, s. 50.

**51.** Every person who wilfully obstructs or
impedes an inspector in the performance of
his duty under this Act or the régulations and
every person who aids or assists him in so
doing, is guilty of an offence. R.S., c. 292,
s. 51.

**52.** Every manufacturer, importer or trader
is guilty of an offence who, upon the demand
of the inspector, refuses or fails to produce
for inspection ail weights, measures, weighing
machines and measuring machines in his
possession and to permit such inspection.
R.S., c. 292, s. 52.

**53.** (1) Every person who is guilty of an
offence under section 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50,
51 or 52 is liable, for the first offence, to a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
months, or to both, and, in the case of every
subséquent offence, to a fine not exceeding
two hundred and fifty dollars or to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding six months, or
to both.
(2) Every person who is guilty of an offence
under section 40, 41 or 42 is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars.
(3) Every person who violâtes any provision
of this Act or any régulation for which no
penalty is elsewhere provided in this Act, is
guilty of an offence and is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars. R.S., c. 292, s. 53.

## FORFEITURE

**54.** (1) Whenever an inspecter believes on
reasonable grounds that an offence under this
Act has been committed he ma}' seize ail
weights, measures, weighing machines and
measuring machines by means of or in relation
to which he reasonably believes the offence
was committed.
(2) Ail things seized pursuant to subsection
(1) may be detained for a period of two
months following the day of seizure, unless
during that period proceedings under this Act
in respect of those things are undertaken, in
which case those things may be further
detained until such proceedings are finally
concluded.
(3) Where a person is convicted of an
offence under this Act, the court or judge
may order that any weights, measures,
weighing machines or measuring machines bj"
means of or in relation to which the offence
was committed shall be forfeited to Her
Majesty, and anything so forfeited may be
disposed of as the Minister may direct. R.S.,
c. 292, s. 54.

## SCHEDULE IV

## PART I

## FORMER DOMINION STANDARDS
The following standards were constructed under the direction
of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for the purposes of
the Act respecting Weights and Measures, chapter 47 of the
Statutes of Canada, 1873 :
The standard for determining the length of the Dominion
standard yard prior to the Weights and Measures Act of 1961
was a solid square bar, thirty-eight inches long and one inch
square in transverse section, the bar being of bronze or gun
métal (known as Baily's métal) ; near to each end a cylindrical
hole is sunk (the distance between the centres of the two holes
being thirty-six inches) to the depth of half an inch; at the
bottom of each hole is inserted in a smaller hole a gold plug
or pin, about one-tenth of an inch in diameter, and upon the
surface of each pin is eut a fine line transverse to the axis of
the bar and two lines at an interval of about one-hundredth of
an inch parallel to the axis of the bar; the measure of length
of the Dominion standard yard was given by the interval
between the transverse line at one end and the transverse line
at the other end, the part of each line which is employed being
the point midway between the longitudinal lines; and the
said points are referred to as the centres of the said gold plugs
or pins, and such bar is marked "Mr. Baily's métal", "Standard
Yard", "A", "Troughton and Simms, London". There are also,
on the upper sidé of the bar, two holes for the insertion of
the bulbs of suitable thermometers for the détermination of the
température.
The standard for determining the weight of the Dominion
standard pound prior to the Weights and Measures Act of 1961
was of platinum-iridium, the form being that of a cylinder
nearly 1.35 inches in height and 1.15 inches in diameter, with
a groove or channel round it, the middle of which is about 0.34
inch below the top of the cylinder, for insertion of the points
of the ivory fork by which it is to be lifted; the edges are
carefully rounded off, and such standard is marked "A". The
weight of this standard in terms of the Impérial standard is

**6999.**97694 grains when both are weighed in vacuo and 6999.98387
grains when both are weighed in air at the température of 62°
of Fahrenheit's thermometer, the barometer being at 30 inches,
and for which due allowance is required to be made when
comparing other standards.
The standard for determining the weight of the Dominion
standard Troy ounce prior to the Weights and Measures Act of
1951 was of platinum-iridium, the form being that of a trun-
cated cône, with a knob, nearly 12/10 of an inch in height,
including the knob, the knob being nearly one-quarter of an
inch and the base of the cône half an inch in diameter respec-
tively, and such standard is marked "A". The weight of this
standard in terms of the Impérial standard is 479.99197 grains
when both are weighed in vacuo, and 480.03648 grains when
both are weighed in air at the température of 62° of Fahren-
thermometer, the barometer being at 30 inches, for which
due allowance is required to be made when comparing with
other standards.

## PART II

## PARLIAMENTARY COPIES

## OF CANADIAN STANDARDS
The following copies of the former standards were constructed
at the same time as the standards set forth in Part I. They are
of the same construction and form as those standards, and they
are respectively marked and deposited as follows:
  * (_a_) A copy of the standard for determining the Dominion
standard yard, being a bronze bar marked "Mr. Baily's mét-
al", "Standard Yard", "B", "Troughton and Simms, London",
  * (_b_) A copy of the standard for determining the Dominion
standard pound, marked "B", and
  * (_c_) A copy of the standard for determining the Dominion
standard Troy ounce marked "B",
were deposited with the Speaker of the Senate. Such copy of
the standard yard is standard at température of 62.16° of
Fahrenheit's thermometer, and the weight of the copy of the
standard pound, in terms of the Impérial standard, when both
are weighed in vacuo, is 6999.98312 grains.
R.S., c. 292, Sch. IV.
