Territory

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** Xhis Act may be cited as the Yukon
Placer Mining Act. R.S., c. 300, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"base line" of a creek or river means a traverse
line following the gênerai direction of the
centre bottom lands of the valley of the
creek or river, surveyed and established
under the direction and with the approval
of the Commissioner ;
"claim" means any parcel of land located or
granted for placer mining, and "mining
property" includes besides claims, any
ditches or water rights used for mining
thereon, and ail other things belonging
thereto or used in the working thereof for
mining purposes;
"Commissioner", "Council" and "Commis-
sioner in Council," respectively, hâve the
same meaning as they hâve in the Yukon
Act;
"creek" means ail natural watercourses, wheth-
er usually containing water or not ; and
that portion of any stream below the point
where it enters the valley of the parent
stream; but does not include streams that
may be considered rivers under the dredging
régulations, that is, streams having an
average width of one hundred and fifty
feet;
includes a flume, pipe, race or other
artificial means for conducting water by its
own weight, to be used for mining purposes ;
"légal post" means a stake having a diameter
throughout of not less than five inches,
standing not less than four feet above the
ground and flatted on two sides for at least
one foot from the top, each of the sides so
flatted measuring at least four inches across
the face, and includes also any stump or
tree eut off and flatted or faced to the
aforesaid height and size ;
"mine" means any natural stratum or bed of
earth, soil, gravel or cément, mined for gold
or other precious minerais or stones;
"mining" or "placer mining" includes every
mode and method of working whatever
whereby earth, soi], gravel or cernent ma.v
be removed, washed, shifted or refined or
otherwise dealt with, for the purpose of
obtaining gold or such other minerais or
stones, but does not include the working of
rock in situ ;
"mining inspecter" means a mining inspecter
appointed under this Act and acting within
the limits of his jurisdiction ;
"mining recorder" means a mining recorder
appointed under this Act and acting within
the limits of his jurisdiction ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development;
"Territory" means the Yukon Territory.
(2) Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to limit the right of the Commis-
sioner, from time to time, to lay out public
roads across, through, along or under any
ditch, water privilège or claim, without
compensation.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Act,
its provisions do not apply to any lands
demised or leased for hydraulic mining
purposes by any lease granted before the Ist
day of August 1906 that bas been cancelled
before that day or that is thereafter cancelled
by direction of the Minister or under an order
the Governor in Council, until such lands
been brought under such provisions by
order of the Governor in Council.
(4) Nothing in this Act prevents the enact-
ment by the Governor in Council of régula-
tions under which dredging leases may be
issued of the whole of the bed of any river in
the Territory. R.S., c. 300, s. 2; 1953-54, c. 4,
s. 12; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.

**3.** Mining recorders, mining inspectors,
deputy mining recorders and deputy mining
inspectors shall be appointed, in the manner
authorized by law, for the purpose of carrying
out this Act. R.S., c. 300, s. 3.
4, fhe Commissioner may, by proclama-
tion published in the Yukon Gazette, divide
the territory into districts to be known as
mining districts, and may, as occasion requires,
change the boundaries of such districts. R.S.,
c. 300, s. 4.

**5.** The Commissioner possesses ail the
powers and authority of a mining recorder
and a mining inspector. R.S., c. 300, s. 5.

**5.** A mining recorder shall be appointed in
each mining district, and within such district
he possesses ail the powers and authority of a
mining inspector. R.S., c. 300, s. 6.

**7.** (1) Every mining recorder shall keep the
following books, to be used for placer mining
entries :
  * (_a_) record of applications ;
  * (_b_) record of refused applications ;
  * (_c_) record book ;
{d) record of abandonments ; and
(é) record of documents received ;
and he shall record ail documents relating to
mining property that are brought to him for
record, and file ail documents relating to such
claims that are brought to him to be filed.
(2) Where a caveat is filed against any
claim, the caveat lapses unless before the
expiration of one month from the receipt
ceedings in a court of compétent jurisdiction
hâve been taken to establish the caveator's
title to the interests specified in the caveat.
(3) A caveat is any instrument claiming
an^- interest whatever in the claim with
référence to which it is filed, but does net
include any instrument creating an}- sale,
mortgage, or other disposition of the property.
R.S., c. 300, s. 7.

**8.** Every entry made in any of the mining
recorder's books shall show the date upon
which the entrj' is made. R.S., c. 300, s. 8.

**9.** Ail books of record and documents filed
shall, during office hours, be open to public
inspection free of charge. R.S., c. 300, s. 9.

**10.** Every copy of, or extract from, any
entry in any of the said books, or of any
document filed in the mining recorder's office,
certified by the mining recorder to be a true
copy or extract, shall be received in anj- court
as évidence of the matters therein contained.
R.S.,c. 300, s. 10.

**11.** Before issuing any grant, or making
any entry in an}' book of record, or filing any
document, or making any copy or extract
therefrom, the mining recorder shall collect
the fées paj-able in respect thereof, as set out
in Schedule IL R.S., c. 300, s. 11.

**12.** The mining recorder shall receive ail
deposits of money by this Act directed to be
made with him. R.S., c. 300, s. 12.

**13.** A statement of the grants issued and
fées collected shall be rendered by the mining
recorder to the Commissioner at least everv
month, and such statement shall be accom-
panied by the amount collected, or if the
money has been deposited to the crédit of the
Receiv^er General, by the deposit receipts.
R.S., c. 300, s. 13.

**14.** \ mining inspector has jurisdiction
^..^^^^^ ^^^^ mming districts as the Commis-
directs. R.S., c. 300, s. 14.
15, (1) The mining inspector may sum-
order any mining works to be so carried
as not to interfère with or endanger the
of the public or anj- employées of the
works, or any public work or highway,
or any mining property, minerai claim, bed-
rock drain or bed-rock flume; and any
abandoned works may, by bis order, be either
filled up or guarded to his satisfaction.
(2) Any person affected by an order of the
mining inspecter under this section may,
within ten days, appeal therefrom to the
Commissioner. R.S., c. 300, s. 15.

**16.** The Commissioner, mining recorder or
mining inspecter, or the deputy of any such
officer, or any judge of the Territorial Court,
or any one deputed by any of them, may
enter into or upon and examine any claim or
mine. R.S., c. 300, s. 16.

## RIGHT TO ACQUIRE CLAIMS

**17.** Any person over eighteen years of âge
may enter for mining purposes, locate,
prospect and mine for gold and other precious
minerais or stones upon any lands in the
Territory, whether vested in the Crown or
otherwise, except lands within the boundaries
of a city, town or village as defined b}' any
ordinance of the Commissioner in Council,
unless under régulations approved by the
Governor in Council, or lands occupied by a
building, or within the curtilage of a dwelling-
house, or lawfully occupied for placer mining
purposes, or that form part of an Indian
reserve. R.S., c. 300, s. 17.

**18.** No person shall enter for mining
purposes, locate, prospect or mine upon lands
owned or lawfully occupied by another until
he bas given adéquate security, to the
satisfaction of the mining recorder, for any
loss or damage that may be thereby caused,
and persons so entering, locating, prospecting
or mining upon any such lands shall make
fuU compensation to the owner or occupant
of such lands for any loss or damage so
caused, such compensation, in case of dispute,
to be determined by a court having jurisdiction
in mining disputes. R.S., c. 300, s. 18.

**19.** The surface rights to any claim shall
net be granted to any person other than the
owner of the claim until the owner is given
an opportunity to acquire the rights by notice
in writing from the Crown timber and land
agent, served personally on the owner or his
agent. R.S., c. 300, s. 19.
SIZE, FORM, ETC., OF CLAIMS

**20.** (1) A claim on a creek shall not exceed
five hundred feet in length, measured along
the base Une of the creek, established or to be
established by a Government survey, as
hereinafter provided.
(2) The side boundaries of a claim shall be
Unes on either side of the base Une, parallel
thereto and one thousand feet distant there-
from.
(3) The end boundaries of the claim shall
be Unes drawn at each end of the claim, at
right angles to the base line, and extending
not more than one thousand feet on either
side thereof.
(4) In the event of the base line not being
established, the claim may be staked along
the gênerai direction of the valley of the
creek, but in such case, when the base line is
established, the boundaries thereby defined
shall be conformed to. R.S., c. 300, s. 20.
2 1. A claim situated elsewhere than on a
creek shall not exceed five hundred feet in
length parallel to the base line of the creek
toward which it fronts, by one thousand feet.
R.S., c. 300, s. 21.

**22.** A claim fronting on a creek or river
shall be staked as nearly as possible parallel
to the gênerai direction of the valley of the
creek or river, and shall conform to the
that the base line, when estab-
lished, defines. R.S., c. 300, s. 22.

**23.** Claims shall be measured horizontally
irrespective of inequalities on the surface of
ground. R.S., c. 300, s. 23.

**24.** (1) Every creek daim shall be as nearly
as possible rectangular in form, and shall be
marked by two légal posts firmly fixed in the
ground on the base line at each end of the
claim.
(2) A claim situated elsewhere than on a
creek shall be as nearly as possible rectangular
in form, and shall be marked by two légal
posts firmly fixed in the ground in a line
parallel to the base line and on the side
nearest the creek or river toward which it
fronts.
(3) The line between the two posts shall be
well eut out so that one post may, if the
nature of the surface will permit, be seen from
the other.
(4) One of the flatted sides of each post
shall face the claim, and on each post shall
be written on the side facing the claim, a
legible notice stating the name or number of
the claim, or both if possible, its length in
feet, the date when staked, and the full
Christian and surname of the locator.
(5) The posts shall be numbered 1 and 2
respectively, and it is not lawful to move
them except that No. 2 may be moved by a
Dominion land surveyor, if the distance
between the posts exceeds the length pre-
scribed by this Act, but not otherwise.
(6) Notwithstanding anything herein con-
tained, failure on the part of a locator of a
claim to comply with any of the foregoing
provisions of this section shall not be deemed
to invalidate his location, if, upon the facts,
it appears to the satisfaction of the mining
recorder that there has been on the part of
the locator a bona fide attempt to comply
with this Act, and that the non-observance of
the formalities hereinbefore referred to is not
of a character calculated to mislead other
persons desiring to locate claims in the
vicinity. R.S., c. 300, s. 24.

**25.** Any person or party of persons locating
the first claim on any creek, hill, bench, bar
or plain, or locating a claim on any creek,
hill, bench, bar or plain upon which there is
no recorded claim, is entitled to a claim or
respectively of the following size,
  * (_a_) one locator, one claim, fifteen hundred
feet in length ; and
(6) a party of two or more locators, two
claims, each one thousand two hundred and
fifty feet in length ; and for each member
of the party beyond two a claim of the
ordinary size only. R.S., c. 300, s. 25.

**26.** The boundaries of any claim may, by
order of the Commissioner or mining recorder,
upon application by the owner thereof, be
enlarged to the size of a claim allowed by this
Act, if such an enlargement will not interfère
with any mining property that is owned by
any other person or is subject to the terms of
an agreement with the Crown. R.S., c. 300, s.

**26.**

## LOCATING AND RECORDING

**27.** The forms of application for grant, of
application for renewai of grant, and of grant
of a claim are those contained respectively in
Forms 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule I. R.S., c. 300, s.

**27.**

**28.** (1) An application in duplicate for a
grant of a claim shall be filed with the mining
recorder within ten days after the location
thereof, if it is located within ten miles of the
mining recorder's office.
(2) One extra day shall be allowed for every
additional ten miles or fraction thereof. R.S.,
c. 300, s. 28.

**29.** No grant shall be issued by a mining
j.g(,Qj.ç|gr fgj. ^ pg^j.^ ^f ^ claim that is already
recorded. R.S., c. 300, s. 29.

**30.** The location of a claim on Sunday or
any public holiday is not for that reason
invalid. R.S., c. 300, s. 30.

**31.** (1) Where a claim is more than one
hundred miles from a recorder's office, and
situated where other claims are being located,
the locators, not less than five in number, are
authorized to meet and appoint one of their
number an emergency recorder, who may
applications for grants of claims
located in accordance with this Act.
(2) The emergency recorder shall note on
each application the day upon which such
application was received by him and the
amount of fées paid in respect thereto. R.S.,
c. 300, s. 31.

**32.** (1) The emergency recorder shall, as
soon as possible after his appointment, notify
the mining recorder for the district in which
the claims are situated of his appointment,
and he shall deliver personally or otherwise
to such mining recorder the applications and
fées received by him in respect of such claims.
(2) Where the emergencj' recorder has
accepted from any person an application
made in accordance with this Act and in the
form set out in Form 1 of Schedule I and the
fee therefor, the mining recorder may issue to
such person a grant in the form set out in
Form 3 of Schedule I.
(3) The grant mentioned in subsection (2)
shall date from the time the emergency
recorder accepted the application and fées.
(4) Where the emergency recorder fails,
within four months, to notify the mining
recorder of his appointment and to deliver to
him the applications for claims received and
the fées collected, the mining recorder may
refuse to issue grants for such claims. R.S., c.
300, s. 32.

**33.** Any person, upon satisfying a mining
recorder that he is about to undertake a bona
fide prospecting trip, may, upon payment of
a fee of two dollars, receive written permission
from the mining recorder, allowing him to
record a claim within his mining district at
any time within a period not exceeding six
months from the date of his staking such
claim. R.S., c. 300, s. 33.

**34.** Xo application shall be received for a
claim that has not been staked by the
applicant in person in the manner specified
in this Act, except that if any person files
with the mining recorder powers of attorney
from not more than two persons he may stake
to such filing not more than three
claims in the name of each such person during
any year the power of attorney is in force.
R.S., c. 300, s. 34.

**35.** (1) A person holding a grant of a claim
may, at any time, abandon the claim, by
giving notice in writing of his intention to do
so to the mining recorder and surrendering
his grant to the mining recorder.
(2) No claim shall be relocated within thirty
days of its being so abandoned, nor until after
notice of the abandonment has been posted
up for at least a week in a conspicuous place
on the claim and in the office of the mining
recorder, nor until a statutory déclaration has
been filed with the mining recorder that the
notices hâve been so posted.
(3) Persons holding an interest in a claim
at the time of its forfeiture or abandonment
do not hâve the right to relocate the daim, or
any part thereof, within one year after the
date of such forfeiture or abandonment. R.S.,
c. 300, s. 35.

**36.** Any person who records a claim in his
own name or who has a claim recorded in his
name by power of attorney does not hâve the
right to locate or hâve located for him another
claim within the valley or basin of the same
creek or river within sixty days of the date on
which the said claim was located. R.S., c. 300,
s. 36.

**37.** During the absence of the mining
j.g(.Qj.(^gj. ffom his office, an application for a
claim may be received by any person whom
he may appoint to perform his duties in his
absence. R.S., c. 300, s. 37.-

**38.** (1) As soon as reasonably possible after
a grant of a claim, the holder of the claim
shall affix or cause to be affixed securely to
each of the posts of the claim a métal tag
plainly marked or impressed with the number
and letter or letters, if any, of the grant of
the claim, and in default the claim may be
cancelled by the mining recorder on the
application of anyone who, in the opinion of
the mining recorder, has been misled by the
of such tags.
(2) The mining recorder on application
supply the numbered tags, mentioned
in subsection (1), free of charge.
(3) This section applies in respect of ail
claims granted after the Ist day of June 1948.
R.S., c. 300, s. 38.

## SUKVEYS

**39.** (1) Surveys of claims made under
instructions issued by direction of the Com-
missioner to a duly qualified Dominion land
surveyor named by him shall be accepted as
defining absolutely the boundaries of the
claims surveyed, if the returns of the survey
are approved by the Commissioner or an
officiai appointed by him for that purpose,
and notice of such survey has been published
in the Yukon Gazette for twelve successive
issues thereof , and reraains unprotested during
that period.
(2) The owner of a claim so surveyed shall,
prior to the first appearance of the advertise-
ment in the Yukon Gazette, cause to be posted
in a conspicuous spot on the claim a notice of
his intention to advertise the survey of the
claim, and also a plan of the survey of the
claim prepared by the surveyor.
(3) If, within the time during which the
notice is published, the survey is protested,
the protest shall be heard and decided upon
by the Commissioner, and the costs of the
hearing are in the discrétion of the Commis-
sioner, who may direct that the costs or any
portion thereof shall be paid by any party to
the proceedings.
(4) If a décision is rendered varying the
boundaries of the claim from those defined
by the advertised survey, the owner of the
claim may hâve the claim re-surveyed and
fresh returns prepared embodying the changes
involved by such décision, and such re-survej-
being approved by the Commissioner, or the
officiai appointed by him for that purpose,
may without advertisement be accepted by
the Commissioner in lieu of the survey that
has been protested.
(5) The expenses in connection with the
survey and advertisement of claims shall be
defrayed by the owners of the claims, but no
will be charged by the Government for
plans or other documents in connection
therewith.
(6) An appeal may be taken at any time
within twent}- days from the décision of the
Commissioner to the Territorial Court of the
Yukon Territory.
(7) The procédure in ail cases before the
Commissioner under this section, and on
appeal therefrom, shall be in accordance with
rules prepared by the Commissioner. R.S., c.
300, s. 39.

**40.** The Commissioner on behalf of the
Government of Canada may authorize and
direct the survey of the base line of any creek
or river to be made in accordance with such
gênerai instructions as may be issued by the
Surveyor General, and such survey is, subject
to the provisions of this Act with respect to
advertisement and protest, a final détermina-
tion of the location of such base line. R.S., c.
300, s. 40.
TITLE

**41.** (1) Any person having duly located a
claim may obtain a grant thereof for one or
five years by paying to the mining recorder,
in advance, the fees prescribed in Schedule
II.
(2) Such person is, upon receiving such
grant, entitled to hold the claim for the period
mentioned therein, with the absolute right of
renewal from year to year thereafter upon
paj'ment of the renewal fee prescribed in
Schedule II, if such person, during each year
of the said period, and during each year for
which such renewal is granted, does, or causes
to be done, work on the claim to the value of
two hundred dollars, in accordance with a
schedule to be prepared by the Commissioner,
and files, within fourteen days after the date
of the expiration of the said period or renewal
thereof, with the mining recorder or bis agent,
an affidavit made by him or his agent, stating
that such work has been done, and setting out
a detailed statement thereof.
(3) Any such work done outside of a claim
intent to work the claim shall be deemed,
if it has direct relation to the claim, and if it
is to the satisfaction of the mining recorder,
to be work done on the claim for the purposes
of this section.
(4) Where more work is performed by or on
behalf of the recorded owner of a claim than
is required by this Act during any year to be
performed the excess work up to a value of
eight hundred dollars upon proof of the same
having been performed in accordance with
this Act shall be applied by the mining
recorder upon work required to be done during
the subséquent year or years ; excess work
may only be recorded during the year in
which it was performed or within fourteen
days of the expiry of such year. R.S., c. 300,
s. 41.

**42.** (1) In the event of the work referred to
in section 41 not being done as therein
provided, the title of the owner to the claim
thereupon becomes absolutely forfeited and
the claim is forthwith open for relocation
without any déclaration of cancellation or
forfeiture on the part of the Crown, and the
claim shall not be reserved from entry and
relocation during the fourteen days of grâce
mentioned in the said section.
(2) This section does not affect any rights
granted by the terms of any existing agreement
with the Crown. R.S., c. 300, s. 42.

**43.** (1) Where the owner of a claim has
done the required work thereon, but has failed
to renew his grant thereof , the mining recorder
may issue a grant to any person relocating
such claim.
(2) The owner maj', within six months after
the date at which his grant came due for
renewal, apply for a renewal grant, and for
the cancellation of any grant so issued, and
the latter grant shall be cancelled, or in the
event of a grant not having been issued for
the said claim, any pending application for
the claim shall be refused, if it is proved to
the satisfaction of the mining recorder that
the required work was done b.v the owner, and
upon the owner pa.ving the expenses to which
the relocator may hâve been put in locating
and applying for the said claim, and in the
event of a gran.t having been issued therefor,
paying also ail the expenses to which the
relocator may hâve been put in obtaining the
grant, and also compensation for any bona
fide work that he bas performed thereon.
(3) Where the owner of a claim fails to
renew bis grant within the time provided by
this Act, the renewal fee, if paid within three
months after the date of expiry, is thirty
dollars, and after three months and within six
months from such date of expiry is forty-five
dollars. R.S., c. 300, s, 43,

**44.** (j) Nq title shall be contested by any
one who does not claim an adverse right
except by leave of the Commissioner, and
upon such leave being given it is not necessary
to hâve any other authority on behalf of the
Crown.
(2) In the event of a claim reverting to the
Crown as a conséquence of litigation under-
taken pursuant to such leave, the plaintiff
bas the first right to locate the said claim.
R.S., c. 300, s. 44.

**45.** Where two or more persons are co-
owners in a claim, each such person shall
contribute, proportionately to his interest, to
the work required to be done thereon and to
the payment of renewal fées, and if it is
proved to the mining recorder, after notice of
hearing bas been served on ail parties
interested in the manner directed by him,
that any co-owner bas not done so, his interest
may, by order of the mining recorder, become
vested in the other co-owners, who bave
performed the work and paid the fées in
proportion to their interests. R.S., c. 300, s.

**45.**

**46.** (1) The owner of a claim may sell,
mortgage or dispose of it, provided the
instrument showing such disposai is deposited
in duplicace with the mining recorder.
(2) The mining recorder shall, upon such
deposit, register the instrument and return to
the assignée one of the duplicates with a
certificate endorsed thereon that the instru-
ment has been recorded in his office, and
the other. R.S., c. 300, s. 46.

**47.** Nq agreement affectmg the title to any
, • ^ . ^ , ? . , , /
claim, or to any interest therein, is eniorceable
against any person without notice, unless such
agreement or some mémorandum thereof is
in writing, duly signed, and is recorded in the
office of the mining recorder. R.S., c. 300, s.

**47.**

**48.** (1) Every person receiving a grant of a
claim, or the permission to record a claim
within the period not exceeding six months
hereinbefore authorized, may, during the
continuance of his grant or permission, fish
and shoot for his own use, subject to the
provisions of any law for the protection of
fish and game, and may also eut timber, not
otherwise acquired, for his own use and for
any purpose incidentai and necessary to the
opération of his claim ; and such person also
has the exclusive right to enter upon his daim
for the miner-like working thereof and the
construction of a résidence thereon, and is
entitled exclusively to ail the proceeds realized
therefrom, upon which, however, the royalty
prescribed by this Act is payable; but the
mining recorder may grant to the holders of
other claims such rights of entry thereon as
may be absolutely necessary for the working
of their claims, upon such terms as to him
seem reasonable, and may also grant permits
to other claim owners to eut timber thereon
for their own use.
(2) The Commissioner may, on application,
gj.^jj^ ^j^y person operating a dredge the right
to take such dredge through a mining claim
owned by any other person to adjoining
property that he may désire to work with the
same dredge, and for the purpose referred to
may grant the right to thaw, disturb, or
remove such portion of the claim as in the
opinion of the Commissioner is necessary for
such opération ; but before such permission is
granted the applicant shall deposit with the
Commissioner a sufficient sum of money to
secure payment to the owner of the claim for
ail damage that may be caused by the passage
of the dredge through such daim ; and ail
damage caused by the said passage through
the daim shall be assessed by the Commis-
sioner and from the moneys deposited with
him by the applicant the damage as assessed
be paid, and the balance, if any,
(3) Where, in the opération necessarj- to the
passage of the dredge, any pay gravels are
removed, the gold that may be contained
therein shall be recovered by such operator,
and ail such gold is the property of the owner
of the claim.
(4) An appeal maj' be taken at any time
within ten days from the décision of the
Commissioner to the Territorial Court of the
Yukon Territory with respect to the amount
of the assessment. R.S., c. 300, s. 48.

**49.** j,fo rights of any person owning or
applying for a claim shall suffer from any
acts of omission or commission, or delays, on
the part of any officiai appointed under this
Act. R.S., c. 300, s. 49.

**50.** Whenever, through the acts or defaults
of any person other than the recorded owner
of a claim, or his agent duly authorized by
him, the évidence of the location or record on
the ground or the situation of the claim has
been destroyed, lost or effaced, or is difficult
of ascertainment, effect shall nevertheless be
given to the location as far as possible ; and
the Commissioner may make ail necessary
inquiries, directions and références in the
premises for the purpose of carrying out the
object of such location, and vesting title in
such owner. R.S., c. 300, s. 50.

**51.** The Governor in Council may make
régulations exempting members of the armed
forces of Her Majesty or any of Her Majesty's
allies, during the period of their service as
such and one year thereafter, from the
provisions of this Act respecting forfeiture of
minerai claims held by them at the time of
their enlistment, for non-performance of work
or non-payment of assessments or rentals.
1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

## GROUPING

**52.** (1) Adjoining claims, not exceeding ten
-^ Q^j^ber, may be grouped together for the
of work by the owner or owners
thereof upon filing with the mining recorder
notice of his or their intention so to group
claims and obtaining a grouping certifi-
in the form set out in Form 7 of Schedule
I.
(2) Adjoining claims exceeding ten in
number and any number of claims some of
which do not adjoin may with the approval
of the Commissioner be grouped together for
the performance of work by the owner or
owners thereof if such owner or owners show
to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that
said claims are to be operated bj- a system of
mining that has a direct bearing upon ail
other claims affected and renders a considér-
able area necessary to successful opération by
the System proposed, and the Commissioner
may, in such cases, issue a grouping certificate
in the form set out in Form 7 of Schedule I.
(3) The holder or holders of a grouping
certificate in the form set out in Form 7 of
Schedule I may perform on any one or more
of the claims in respect of which the grouping
certificate was issued, ail or any part of the
work required to entitle him or them to a
certificate of work for each claim so held by
him or them, but if such work is not done the
claims shall be deemed to be vacant and
abandoned without any déclaration of can-
cellation or forfeiture on the part of the
Crown.
(4) Any grouping certificate issued by the
Commissioner may be cancelled by him upon
the expiry of sixty days from the mailing pf
a notice by registered mail to the owners of
the claims in the group, in case it appears
from the report of a mining inspector or
otherwise that the system of mining contera-
plated when such grouping certificate was
issued is not being installed or operated with
reasonable diligence. R.S., c. 300, s. 52.

**53.** (1) Grants of claims in respect of which
a grouping certificate has been issued, and
grants of any claims within a mining district,
owned by one person, may be made renewable
by the mining recorder on the same day.
(2) In granting the privilège allowed under
this section the mining recorder shall charge
the applicant two dollars and fifty cents for
every three months or portion thereof for
each claim during that portion of the year it
is necessary to renew it to make ail the claims
renewable on the same day ; and the représen-
tation work required for the fractional portion
of the year for which each claim is renewed
shall be allowed at the rate of fifty dollars
for each three months or fraction thereof, and
the said représentation work shall be per-
formed and recorded on or before the date
from which ail the claims are first made
renewable. R.S., c. 300, s. 53.

## WATER RIGHTS

**54.** Every person owning a claim is entitled
to the seepage water on his claim and to the
use of so much of the water naturally flowing
through or past his claim, and not already
lawfully appropriated, as, in the opinion of
the mining inspector, is necessary for the due
working thereof; and he is entitled to drain
his own claim free of charge. R.S., c. 300, s.

**54.**

**55.** (1) A mining recorder may, with the
approval of the Commissioner, upon applica-
tion being made as hereinafter mentioned,
grant to any person or persons for any mining
purpose or any purpose incidental thereto,
for any term not exceeding five years, or in
spécial cases for such longer term as may be
determined, the right to divert or take, and
use or sell the water from any stream or lake,
at any particular part thereof, and the right-
of-way through and entry upon any mining
property, for the purpose of constructing and
repairing ditches and flumes to convey such
water.
(2) Before entering upon or constructing or
repairing works upon the mining property of
any other person, such applicant shall give
adéquate security, by bond or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the mining recorder to
secure payment to the owner of the mining
property of ail damage caused by such entry
or construction or repairing. R.S., c. 300, s. 55.

**56.** (1) Every applicant for a water grant
post for twenty days prior to the making
the application a notice in writing of his
intention to apply to the mining recorder for
grant
  * (_a_) at the point of proposed diversion or
taking;
(6) on the claim on which such water is
intended to be used ;
  * (_c_) on each claim or person's land to be
crossed by the water in course of transit to
the place of user; and
  * (_d_) in the office of the mining recorder ;
and shall forward a copy of the notice to the
Commissioner.
(2) The notice shall state
  * (_a_) the name of the applicant ;
  * (_b_) the name, or if unnamed, a sufficient
description, of the stream, lake or other
source from which water is intended to be
diverted or taken;
  * (_c_) the point of diversion or taking or
intended ditch-head, and the point where
the water is to be returned to the stream ;
  * (_d_) the means by which it is intended to
divert or take, or to store the water;
  * (_e_) the number of inches of water to be
applied for;
  * (_f_) the purposes for which it is required,
stated with reasonable particularity ;
  * (_g_) the claim upon which the water is to be
used, or, if the right to sell water is asked,
the locality within which the right is to be
exercised ; and
  * (_h_) the date of the posting of the notice,
and the date on which application will be
made to the mining recorder for the granting
of the record. R.S., c. 300, s. 56.

**57.** On the day mentioned in the notice of
application or at a subséquent day and time
to be fixed by the mining recorder, as the case
may be, application shall be made by or on
behalf of the applicant, either by attendance
in person or by agent, or in writing, for a
grant in accordance with the terms of the
notice. R.S., c. 300, s. 57.

**58.** The mining recorder shall, at such day
unrecorded water available for diversion
having regard to existing rights and records,
whether held by land owners or mine owners,
and to pending applications, which facts shall
be reported upon by the Government mining
engineer or mining recorder, issue to the
applicant a grant, in Form 4 of Schedule I, of
such amount of water and for such purposes
as, in the discrétion of the mining recorder,
are reasonably required by the applicant for
the purposes specified in his notice of
application. R.S., c. 300, s. 58.

**59.** The mining recorder may adjourn such
adjudication from time to time as circum-
stances render expédient, and may take
évidence by statutory déclaration, and sum-
mon and examine witnesses upon oath, and
hear ail parties whose rights are or may be
affected by the application. R.S., c. 300, s. 59.

**60.** (1) Every holder of a water grant shall
take ail reasonable means for utilizing the
water granted to him ; and if he wilfully
wastes any water or takes a quantity of water
in excess of his actual requirements, or bas
worked out or abandoned the claim or claims
with respect to which the water grant was
issued, the mining inspector may, upon notice,
cancel or reduce the grant, or impose such
conditions as he thinks proper.
(2) An appeal may be taken, at any time
within ten days from any such action of the
mining inspector, to the Commissioner. R.S.,
c. 300, s. 60.

**61.** Every grant of water on an occupied
creek is subject to the rights of such claim
owners as shall, at the time of such grant, be
working on the stream above or below the
ditch-head, and of any other persons lawfully
using such water for any purpose whatever.
R.S., c. 300, s. 61.

**62.** (1) If, after the grant has been made.
any claim or claims below the ditch-
head on any stream so diverted, they are
coUectively entitled to the continuous flow in
the stream of the water passing such claim or
claims to the following extent: if three
hundred inches or less are diverted, they are
entitled to forty inches and no more ; if over
three hundred are diverted, they are entitled
to sixtj' inches, and no more, except, in either
case, upon paying to the owner of the ditch,
and ail other persons interested therein,
compensation equal to the amount of damage
sustained bj' the continuous flow of such extra
quantity of water as is desired; and in
Computing such damage the loss sustained by
the owners of such claims using water from
the ditch, and ail other reasonable losses,
shall be considered.
(2) The right to such continuous flow, and
to such extra quantité' of water, is subject in
ail cases to the approval in writing of the
Government mining engineer or mining
recorder, subject to appeal to the Commis-
sioner within twenty days from the date of
the décision rendered. R.S., c. 300, s. 62.

**63.** The holder of a water grant with the
privilège of selling water may distribute the
water to such persons and on such terms as he
deems advisable, within the limits mentioned
in his grant, but the price charged for such
water is subject to the control of the
Commissioner, and the water shall be supplied
to ail claim owners who make application
therefor in a fair proportion, and according
to priority of application. R.S., c. 300, s. 63.

**64.** In measuring water in any ditch or
sluice the following rules shall be observed :
  * (_a_) the water taken into a ditch or sluice
shall be measured at the ditch or sluice
head ;
(6) no water shall be taken into a ditch or
sluice except in a trough placed horizontally
at the place at which the water enters it ;
  * (_c_) one inch of water means half the
quantity that will pass through an orifice
two inches high by one inch wide with a
constant head of seven inches above the
upper side of the orifice ; and
  * (_d_) a sluice head shall consist of fifty such
inches of water. R.S., c. 300, s. 64.

**65.** The owner of any ditch, water privilège
or claim shall, at his own expense, construct,
secure and maintain ail culverts necessary for
the passage of waste and superfluous water
flowing through or over any such ditch, water
privilège or claim. R.S., c. 300, s. 65.

**66.** The owner of any ditch or water
privilège shall construct and secure the same
in a proper and substantial manner, and
maintain the same in good repair, to the
satisfaction of the mining recorder, and so
that no damage shall occur to any road or
work in its vicinity from any part of the works
of such ditch or water privilège. R.S., c. 300,
s. 66.

**67.** (1) The owner of any ditch or water
privilège is liable for, and shall make good in
such manner as the mining recorder déter-
mines, ail damages that may be occasioned
by or through any part of the works of the
said ditch, water privilège or right breaking
or being imperfect.
(2) An appeal from the décision of the
mining recorder under this section may be
taken at any time within ten days to the
Commissioner. R.S., c. 300, s. 67.

**68.** Every grant of water obtained by the
owner of a claim shall be deemed appurtenant
to the claim in respect of which the grant is
obtained ; and ail assigrmients, transfers or
conveyances permitted by law of any claim,
whether such assignments, transfers or con-
veyances were made before or after the Ist
day of August 1906 shall be construed to hâve
conveyed and transferred, and to convey and
transfer, any and ail recorded water privilèges
appurtenant to the claim assigned, transferred
or conveyed. R.S., c. 300, s. 68.

**69.** The Commissioner may, upon approval
by him of an application for permission to
impound the surplus waters of any creek or
gulch,withdraw from mining entry any vacant
ground required as a réservoir site, or for any
purpose in connection with the storage
water; but only such ground as bas been
thoroughly prospected and bas been found to
worthless for placer mining purposes, or
ground that bas been worked out and
abandoned, may be so withdrawn. R.S., c.
300, s. 69.

## DRAINAGE

**70.** The mining recorder may grant per-
mission to run a drain or tunnel for drainage
purposes through any occupied or unoccupied
lands whether minerai or not, and may give
exclusive rights-of-way through and entry
upon any mining ground for any term not
exceeding five years, for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining drains for the
drainage thereof. R.S., c. 300, s. 70.

**71.** The grantee shall compensate the
owners of lands or of claims entered upon by
him for any damage they may sustain by the
construction of such tunnel or drain; and
such compensation, if not agreed upon, shall
be settled by the board of arbitration
hereinafter referred to, and be paid before
such drain or tunnel is constructed. R.S., c.
300, s. 71.

**72.** The drain or tunnel referred to in
section 70, when constructed, shall be deemed
to be the property of the person by whom it
has been constructed. R.S., c. 300, s. 72.

**73.** (1) Every application for a grant shall
State the names of the applicants, the nature
and extent of the proposed drain or drains,
the amount of toll, if any, to be charged, and
the privilèges sought to be acquired, and
shall, except where the drain is intended only
for the drainage of the claim of the person
constructing it, be accompanied by a deposit
of twenty-five dollars, which shall be refunded
if the application is refused, but not otherwise.
(2) Ten full days notice shall be given of
any such application to be made in June,
July, August, September or October, and one
month's notice of an application to be made
in any other month, by affixing the notice to
a post planted in some conspicuous part of
the ground, and by affixing a copy thereof
conspicuously upon the inner walls of the
of the mining recorder.
(3) Prior to such application, the ground
therein shall be marked out to the
of the mining recorder.
(4) Any person may, within the times
hereinbefore prescribed for the notice of such
application but not afterwards, protest before
the Commissioner against the application
being granted. R.S., c. 300, s. 73.

**74.** (1) The grant of the right-of-way to
construct drains and tunnels shall be in Form
5 of Schedule I.
(2) The grant shall be registered bj' the
grantee in the office of the mining recorder,
to whom he shall at the time paj' a fee of five
dollars ; or, if the grant gives power to coUect
tolls, a fee of forty dollars.
(3) An annual rent of ten dollars shall be
paid, in advance, by the grantee for each
quarter of a mile of right-of-way legally held
by him, except where the drain is for the
purpose of draining only the claim of the
person constructing it. R.S., c. 300, s. 74.
DISPUTES

**75.** In case of any dispute as to the locating
of a claim, the title to the claim shall dépend
upon priority of location, subject, however, to
any question as to the validity of the record
itself, and subject, further, to the claimant
having complied with ail the terms and
conditions of this Act. R.S., c. 300, s. 75.

**76.** (1) In the event of any dispute between
the owners of claims or lessees of locations
with respect to the distribution of water,
encroachments, or to dumping, or as to the
amount of compensation to be paid for any
damage caused by any drain or tunnel
constructed for drainage purposes under this
Act, or any other matter referred to in section
77, such dispute may be heard and determined
by a board of arbitrators.
(2) The Commissioner, upon the request of
any such owner or lessee for the appointment
of, clearly expressed in writing,
notify each party to the dispute to
appoint an arbitrator, and shall notify ail
persons holding any interest in the claim or
property of the proposed arbitration proceed-
ings, and in case any person who was notified
to appoint refuses or neglects to appoint an
arbitrator within thirty days of the date of
such notification the Commissioner, upon
being requested to do so by the arbitrator or
arbitrators appointed, or by any interested
owner or lessee, shall appoint such arbitrator
or arbitrators.
(3) In the event of the total number of
arbitrators so appointed being an even
number, an âdditional arbitrator shall be
appointed by such arbitrators.
(4) In the event of the arbitrators so
appointed being an even number, and being
unable to agrée upon the âdditional arbitrator,
or failing to do so within five days from the
date upon which the last arbitrator was
appointed, the Commissioner, upon being
requested to do so by the arbitrators so
appointed or by any interested owner or
lessee, shall appoint the âdditional arbitrator.
(5) The arbitrators are entitled to be paid
a per diem allowance of ten dollars, together
with necessary travelling and living expenses,
while actually engaged in the arbitration, and
the costs of such arbitration, including the
cost of any examination of the property that
may be found necessary, shall be borne bj'
such owners or lessees as are parties to the
dispute, and in the proportion set out in the
award of the arbitrators.
(6) The procédure in ail cases before a
board of arbitrators under this Act shall be in
accordance with rules prepared by the Com-
missioner. R.S., c. 300, s. 76.

**77.** (1) Except as hereinafter provided, no
person mining upon any claim shall cause
damage or injury to the holder of any claim
other than his own by throwing earth, clay,
stones or other material upon such other
claim, or by causing or allowing water that
may be pumped or bailed or may flow from
his own claim, to flow into or upon such other
daim.
(2) If the owner of a claim wishes to deposit
the leavings, deads, waste or tailings therefrom
on any adjacent claim, or on any other
adjacent mining property, whether the same
acquired under this Act or any other Act,
order in council or régulation governing
mining in the Yukon Territory, which daim
or mining property is of not less than five
years standing, or if such owner wishes to
cause or allow water that may be pumped or
bailed or may flow from his own claim to flow
into or upon such other claim or mining
property, he may give one month's notice of
such désire in writing to the owner or lessee
of such adjacent claim or property, and if, at
the expiration of the month the owner giving
the said notice and the owner or lessee of the
adjacent claim or mining property has not
been able to arrive at an agreement as to the
price to be paid for the dumping ground or
for damages caused by such flow of water, the
owner giving notice may apply to the
Commissioner to hâve the value and size of
the dumping ground and the amount of such
damages determined by the board of arbitra-
tors, and the board has power to permit so
much of the adjacent claim or property to be
used for dumping and at such a price as the
board of arbitrators deems just. R.S., c. 300, s.

**77.**

**78.** (1) The judgment of the board of
arbitrators shall be in writing and shall be
filed in the office of the mining recorder.
(2) Any such judgment is final as to facts,
but may be appealed from the Territorial
Court on any question of law. R.S., c. 300, s.

**78.**

**79.** The board of arbitrators may award
such costs of and incidental to the inquiry as
it deems just. R.S., c. 300, s. 79.

**80.** Affidavits and déclarations required
by this Act may be made before the
Commissioner or any mining recorder or
mining inspector, anywhere within the Terri-
tory, or by any person duly authorized to
administer an oath or déclaration. R.S., c.
300, s. 80.

## ADMINISTRATION OF ESTATES

**81.** Where the owner of a claim or of any
interest in a daim dies or is adjudged to be
the provisions of this Act as to
forfeiture for non-performance of work, pay-
of fées and renewal do not apply except
as hereinafter provided, in the first case,
either during his last illness or after his
decease, and in the second case, either after
he has been so adjudged insane, or where it
appears that the neglect or omission on
account or by reason of which such claim
would otherwise hâve been deemed to be
forfeited was attributable to his insanity, then
during such period prior to his having been
so adjudged insane as he may be shown to
hâve been insane. R.S., c. 300, s. 81.

**82.** (1) The Commissioner may by order
limit the period during which ail or any
interest in any mining claim, the property of
such deceased or insane person, shall be so
exempt from the provisions of this Act that
require the annual performance of work and
paj'ment of fées and may fix the date upon
which the same shall again become subject to
ail the provisions of this Act, and upon which
renewal grants for the said property shall be
issued upon payment of the prescribed fee.
(2) Upon failure so to renew, the title of
the owner of the said property shall thereupon
become absolutely forfeited and where the
estate of such deceased person is the sole
owner of any such claim, the claim shall
forthwith be open for relocation without any
déclaration of cancellation or forfeiture on
the part of the Crown, and where such an
estate is a co-owner in any such claim, the
interest of the estate thereupon ipso facto
becomes vested in the other co-owners in
proportion to their interests.
(3) The Commissioner may, by like order
from time to time, extend the period of such
exemption as the necessity of the case may in
his opinion demand, but in the case of
deceased persons the period during which
such exemption applies shall not extend
beyond three years from the date of the death
of such person.
(4) If there is no other légal représentative
of the estate of any such deceased or insane
person, the Commissioner may cause the
administrator of the Territory to take
of such property and administer it,
to the provisions of any ordinance
the administration of the estâtes
of deceased or insane persons in the Territory,
existing on the Ist day of August 1906 or
thereafter to be made or passed.
(5) No exemption of the interest of a
deceased or insane owner in any claim applies
to or exempts any co-owner's interest from
the provisions of this Act with respect to the
annual performance of work and payment of
renewal fées.
(6) Where the estate of a deceased or insane
person owns an interest in a claim and ail the
living co-owners hâve during the period of
such exemption failed to perform the required
work or to pay renewal fées, the interests of
such co-owners may, upon such failure being
proved to the Commissioner, after notice of
hearing bas been served on ail parties
interested in the manner directed by him,
become vested in such estate by order of the
Commissioner. R.S., c. 300, s. 82.

**83.** Ail charges and expenses that may be
incurred by the Commissioner or the public
administrator, or by any person acting under
the instructions of either of them, in or about
the working of such mining property, or in
taking or keeping possession thereof , are and
remain a first charge against that property
until paid to the Commissioner or public
administrator, as the case may be. R.S., c.
300, s. 83.

**84.** (1) Any person receiving, from the
public administrator or other légal représen-
tative of the estate of a deceased or insane
person, an assignment or transfer of a claim
or interest in a claim that has been exempted
from the provisions of this Act with respect to
performance of work and payment of renewal
fées because of the death or insanity of the
owner thereof, shall apply to the mining
recorder and pay the prescribed fee for a
grant thereof within two months from the
date of such assignment or transfer.
(2) If a grant is not so applied for and the
recording fee paid, the provisions so exempting
claim or interest cease to apply and such
or interest shall on the expiration of
months become absolutely forfeited and
for location. R.S., c. 300, s. 84.

## TAXATION AND FEES

**85.** (1) On ail gold shipped from the
Territory there shall be levied and collected
a royalty at the rate of two and one-half per
cent of its value, or at such less rate as may
be fixed by the Governor in Council.
(2) Gold upon which royalty is payable is
gold dust as mined, or gold in the form of
bars as presented for export.
(3) Such royalty shall be paid in currency
to the Controller of the Territory, or to some
person authorized by him in that behalf, and
the gold for the purpose of estimating such
royalty shall be valued at fifteen dollars per
ounce. R.S., c. 300, s. 85.

**86.** (1) Every person who exports or
attempts to export from the Territory any
gold with respect to which the royalty imposed
by section 85 has not been paid, is guilty of
an offence and liable on summary conviction
to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years, or to both.
(2) Where a person is convicted under
subsection (1) the convicting magistrale or
justice may in his discrétion order the gold in
respect of which the conviction is had to be
forfeited and thereupon the gold is forfeited
to Her Majesty.
(3) Every person about to export gold from
the Territory shall upon demand produce to
any peace officer a certificate from the
Controller of the Territory or person author-
ized by the Controller under subsection 85(3)
certifying that the royalty imposed by section
85 with respect to such gold has been paid
and failure to produce the certificate upon
has committed or has reason to believe
that any person is about to commit an offence
described in subsection (1) or has in bis
possession or in bis belongings any gold in
respect of which the royalty imposed by
section 85 bas not been paid, that peace
officer may without warrant search such
person and his belongings and any articles
believed to be his belongings and may seize
any gold found upon such person or in such
belongings.
(5) No female shall be searched pursuant to
this section except by a suitable woman who
is a peace officer or is authorized by the peace
officer to make the search.
(6) Any gold seized pursuant to subsection
(4) may be detained for a period of six months,
and if before the expiration of such period
any proceedings with respect to the gold are
taken under this Act may be further detained
until such proceedings are finally concluded.
(7) For the purpose of this section the
expression "peace officer" means a peace
officer as defined in section 2 of the Criminal
Code. R.S., c. 300, s. 86.

**87.** The fées to be charged in connection
with the administration of this Act are those
set out in Schedule II. R.S., c. 300, s. 87.

**88.** AU fées, fines, royalties or other moneys
coUected under this Act become part of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. R.S., c. 300, s.

**88.**

## GENERAL

**89.** (1) If it is proved to the satisfaction of
the mining recorder that any person has
  * (_a_) been guilty of misrepresentation in the
statement sworn to by him in recording any
claira, or in any of the statements required,
under this Act, to be made by him under
oath, or
(6) removed, or disturbed with intent to
remove, or defaced any légal post or stake
or other mark placed under the provisions
of this Act,
the mining recorder may, in his discrétion,
that such person be debarred from the
to obtain a grant or renewal of a grant
a claim for any length of time that he
deems advisable.
(2) The mining recorder shall, forthwith,
upon any such décision by him, notify every
other mining recorder of such décision.
(3) An appeal lies from any such décision
of the mining recorder to the Commissioner.
R.S., c. 300, s. 89.

**90.** Anj- person wilfully acting in contra-
vention of this Act, or refusing to obey any
lawful order of any officiai, court or board
having jurisdiction under this Act in mining
disputes is, on summary conviction before
any two justices of the peace or a police
magistrale, liable to a fine not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars, or to imprisonment,
with or without hard labour, for a term not
exceeding three months. R.S., c. 300, s. 90.

**91.** (1) No person shall be granted or
acquire a claim or any right therein, or carry
on placer mining in the Territory, except in
accordance with this Act.
(2) This section does not affect any rights
  * (_a_) that hâve already been acquired under
the régulations for the disposai of mining
locations in the Territory to be worked by
the hydraulic or other mining process,
approved by Order in Council dated the
3rd day of December 1898 and amendments
thereto ;
  * (_b_) that hâve been or may after the Ist day
of August 1906 be acquired under the
régulations governing the issue of leases to
dredge for minerais in the beds of rivers in
the Territory, approved by Order in Council
dated the 18th day of January 1898 or of
any régulations in amendment thereof ;
  * (_c_) that may hâve been otherwise lawfully
granted before the Ist day of August 1906 ;
or
  * (_d_) that may hâve been acquired under the
authority of a lease to prospect. R.S., c. 300,
s. 91.

**92.** (1) The Commissioner may grant a
as defined in this Act on lands that
the property of the Crown, or the mining
of which are available for disposai
this Act, upon receipt of an application
accompanied by évidence to his satisfaction
of the applicant's financial ability and
intention to incur the expenditure necessary
to thoroughly prospect the area described in
the application.
(2) The location shall be marked in the
ground in the manner prescribed by this Act,
and application for a lease shall be submitted
in the form prescribed in Form 6 of Schedule
I.
(3) While the lease remains in force the
lessee is not eligible to make application for
another lease.
(4) The term of the lease shall be one year,
renewable for two additional periods of one
year each, if the lessee on or before the
termination of the year furnishes the Com-
missioner with évidence to show that he has
incurred the prescribed expenditure in pros-
pecting opérations, and has otherwise com-
plied with this Act and with the terms and
conditions of the lease.
(5) If the tract included in an application
for a lease comprises abandoned ground, that
is, if the whole or any portion of the creek or
river upon which the tract applied for is
situated has previously been staked out and
recorded under this Act, or the régulations
that preceded it, or under the hydraulic
mining régulations approved by Order in
Council dated the 3rd day of December 1898,
but the grants of which hâve been permitted
to lapse, or hâve been cancelled or forfeited,
it shall not exceed five miles in length, and
in the case of a creek shall be measured along
the base line in the manner prescribed in this
Act, the side and end boundaries of the
location being those defined in this Act.
(6) In the case of a river, the location shall
on one side thereof only, and shall extend
from the foot of the natural banks a
oî one thousand feet measured from
base line, the end boundaries being Unes
at each end of the location at right
to such base line.
(7) Locations other than on a creek or river
shall not exceed one thousand feet in width
and five miles in length measured along the
line parallel to the base line of the creek or
river and shall be made only on abandoned
ground as defined in subsection (5).
(8) The rental of the tract leased shall be
at the rate of twenty-five dollars a mile or
fraction of a mile, payable to the Commis-
sioner in advance for each year.
(9) Prior to the termination of the year the
lessee shall furnish évidence, supported by
affidavit, to the satisfaction of the Commis-
sioner, that he has incurred during the year
an expenditure at the rate of at least one
thousand dollars for each mile or fraction of
a mile leased to him in prospecting opérations
by recognized methods on the location itself
or for any purpose that to the Commissioner
may seem essential or necessary for the
economical development of the tract leased ;
and if such évidence is not furnished before
the termination of the year, or is not
satisfactory, the lessee is not entitled to a
renewal of his lease.
(10) Before the termination of the lease the
lessee may, if he so desires, personally stake
out in the manner prescribed in this Act,
placer mining claims comprising the whole or
any portion of the tract leased, and upon
furnishing the Commissioner with satisfactory
évidence to show that he has incurred during
the year for which the lease was issued the
expenditure already provided for in the
development of the leasehold he may submit
application in the form prescribed in Form 1
of Schedule I, and obtain a grant in his own
name for each of the claims so staked and
applied for, in which case the unrecorded
portion of the location immediateh' reverts
to the Crown and becomes available for
disposai under this Act.
(11) If a creek or a river upon which an
applicant desires to acquire a lease to prospect
has not already been prospected, that is, if
mining claims hâve not previously been
staked, recorded, and abandoned along any
part of such creek or river, the term of the
lease that may be granted shall be for one
year only, not subject to renewal, and the
tract leased shall not exceed one mile in
length, marked out and measured in the
manner above prescribed, and subject to ail
the conditions above set out in so far as they
can be made to apply.
(12) Before the termination of the year the
lessee of such a location may, if he so desires,
stake out within the limits of the tract leased
a claim not exceeding in size a discovery
claim as defined in this Act, and upon
furnishing the Commissioner with satisfactory
évidence to show that he has incurred during
the year for which the lease was issued the
expenditure already provided for in the
development of the leasehold, he may submit
application and obtain a grant for the claim
so staked and applied for, in which case the
unrecorded portion of the location immedi-
ately reverts to the Crown and becomes
available for disposai under this Act, and
only one discovery claim shall be allowed on
any such creek or river.
(13) The fee for the issue of a lease, or for
the renewal thereof, is twenty-five dollars for
each mile or fraction of a mile described in
the lease, payable in advance to the mining
recorder for the district, or to the Commis-
sioner.
(14) The lessee shall not assign, transfer or
sublet the rights described in the lease, or any
portion thereof, without the consent in writing
of the Minister being first had and obtained.
R.S., c. 300, s. 92.

## SCHEDULE I
FORM 1
APPLICATION FOR GEANT FOE PLACEE MINING AND AFFIDAVIT
OF APPUCANT (Secs. 27, 32(2), 92(10))
No.
I, (or, we) of hereby apply, under the
Yukon Placer Mining Act, for a grant of a claim for placer
mining as defined in the said Act, in {hère describe locality)
and I {or, we) make oath and say:

**1.** That to the best of my (or, our) knowledge and belief the
land is such as can be located under section 17 of the said Act.

**2.** That I {or, we) did on the day of
19 , mark out on the ground, in accordance in every par-
ticular with the provisions of the said Act, the claim for which
I {or, we) make this apphcation, and in so doing I {or, we)
did not encroach on any other claim or mining location pre-
viously laid out by any other person.

**3.** That the length of the said claim, as nearly as I {or, we)
could measure, is feet, and that the description of
this date hereto attached, signed by me {or, us) sets forth in
détail, to the best of my {or, our) knowledge and abilit}', its
position.

**4.** That I {or, we) staked out the claim by planting two
légal posts numbered 1 and 2, respectively, and that No. 1
is discovery.

**5.** That I {or, we) make this application in good faith to
acquire the claim for the sole purpose of mining to be prose-
cuted by myself {or, us) or by myself and associâtes or by my
{or, our) assigns.
Sworn before me at , in the Yukon
Territory, this day of
19
A commissioner for taking affidavits in the
Yukon Territory {or as the case may be).
R.S., c. 300, Sch. A.
FOEM 2
APPLICATION FOR EENEWAL OF GRANT FOR PLACER MINING AND
AFFIDAVIT OF APPLICANT (SeC. 27)
No.
I, {or, we) of (agent for
of , if such be the jact) hereby apply under the
Yukon Placer Mining Act for a renewal of a grant to the placer
mining claim in the mining district,
which said grant is number , and was issued to
on the day of 19 , and
I make oath and say :

**1.** That I am {or, we are) (the agent of , ij
déponent is an agent of the owner) the owner {or, owmers) of
placer mining claim in the mining dis-
trict, and hold {or, that he holds) a grant for the said claim
dated the day of 19
Territory, between the day of
19 , and the day of 19
The f ollowing is a detailed statement of such work :
Sworn before me at , in the Yukon
Territory, this day of
19
A commissioner for taking affidavits in the
Yukon Territory (or as the case may be).
R.S., c. 300, Sch. B.
FORM 3
GRANT FOR PL.\CEB MINING (SecS. 27, 32(2))
No.
Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development
Agency, 19
In considération of the payment of dollars, being
the fee prescribed by Schedule II to the Yukon Placer Mining
Act, by , of , accompanying his {or,
their) application No. dated 19 for
a mining claim in {hère insert description oj locality)
The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development
hereby grants to the said for a term of
years from the date hereof, the exclusive right of entry upon
the claim {hère describe in détail the claim granted) for the
miner-like working thereof, and the construction of a résidence
thereon, and the exclusive right to ail the proceeds realized
therefrom, upon which, however, the royalty prescribed bj' the
said Act shall be paid.
The said shall be entitled to the use of so much
of the water naturally flowing through or past his {or, their)
claim, and not already lawfulh' appropriated, as shall be neces-
sary for the due working thereof, and to drain his {or, their)
claim, free of charge.
This grant does not convey to the said any right
of ownership in the soil covered by the said claim, and the said
grant shall lapse and be forfeited unless section 41 of the Yukon
Placer Mining Act is strictly complied with.
The rights hereby granted are those laid down in the said
Act and no more, and subject to ail the provisions of the said
Act, whether they are expressed herein or not.
Mining Recorder
R.S., c. 300, Sch. C; 1952-53, c. 4, s. 12; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.
FoRM 4
GRANT OF RIGHT TO DIVERT WATœ AND CONSTRUCT DITCHES
(Sec. 58)
Agency, 19
In considération of the sum of dollars paid on the
application is made for this grant, the Minister of Indian
Yukon Placer Mining Act, hereby grants to for the
of years from the date hereof, the right to
divert, take (sell, to be inserted in a grant to sell water) and
the water from to the extent of
inches, and no more, to be distributed as follows:
and the right of way through and entry upon the following
mining grounds:
for the purpose of constructing ditches and fîumes to convey
such water, provided that at least the sum of
dollars, shall be expended on the said ditches and flumes within
one year from the date hereof, and provided that such ditches
and flumes are constructed and in working order within
from the date hereof:
Provided that this grant shall be deemed to be appurtenant
to placer claim No. , and shall cease and détermine
whenever the said claim shall hâve been worked out or aban-
doned, or the occasion for the use of such water upon the said
claim shall hâve permanently ceased :
(// the right to sell water is granted, insert the joUoiting:
"Provided also, that the price charged for the water shall be
subject to the control of the Commissioner of the Yukon
Territory, and the water shall be supplied to ail claim owners
who apply therefor in a fair proportion and without any
discrimination.")
Provided also, that this grant is subject to ail the provisions
of the said Act in that behalf whether the same are expressed
herein or not. It is expressly a condition of this grant that the
same is issued subject to ail rights subsisting at this date to the
water in respect to which this grant is issued. Water to be
fiumed and tailings to be handled to the satisfaction of the
mining inspector.
Mining Recorder
R.S., c. 300, Sch. E.; 1952-53, c. 4, s. 12; 1966-67, c. 25, s. 40.
FOBM 5
TUNNEL OR DRAIN LICENCE (SeC. 74)
No.
To ail whom it may concern :
Take notice that the owner of placer claim
in Mining District, having given secu-
rity to the amount of for any damage he may do,
has this day obtained a licence from me to run a tunnel (or,
drain) from to his said claim. The said licence is
granted on thèse express conditions:
(Set out conditions, if any.)
Dated at the day of 19
Mining Recorder
R.S., c. 300, Sch. F.
FORM 6
APPLICATION FOE A LEASE TO PROSPECT AND AFFID.4VIT OF
THEAPPLICANT (SeC. 92(2))
such as may be located for prospecting purposes under the
said Act ;

**2.** That I did on the day of 19
mark out on the ground in accordance in every particular with
the said Act the location for which I make this application;

**3.** That the length of the location, as nearly as I could
measure it, is feet, and that the description above
given in détail sets forth to the best of my knowledge and
ability its position ;

**4.** That I staked out the location by planting two légal posts,
numbered 1 and 2, respectively, and that No. 1 is the down
stream post of the location ;

**5.** That no placer mining claims are now recorded on the
tract applied for, and that no placer mining opérations are now
being conducted thereon;

**6.** That I make this application in good faith to acquire a
prospecting lease for the sole purpose of prospecting and
mining to be prosecuted by myself, or by myself and asso-
ciâtes, or by my assigns.
Sworn before me at , in the Yukon
Territory, this day of
19
A commissioner for taking affidavits in the
Yukon Territory (or as the case may be).
R.S., c. 300, Sch. G.
FORM 7
GROUPING CERTIFICATE (SeC. 52)
Fee paid $
Mining District
In accordance with section 52 of the Yukon Placer Mining
Act the owners of the following claims are permitted to group
such claims together for the performance of work:
Dated at
this day of
19
Mining Recorder (or
Commissioner)
R.S., c. 300, Sch. H.

## SCHEDULE II

## FEES

**1.** For grant of a claim for one year $10.00

**2.** For grant of a claim for five years 50.00

**3.** For renewal of grant of a claim :
For one year 10.00
For two years 20.00
For three years 30.00
For four years 40.00
addi-
