Territory

## SHORT TITLE

**1.** Xhis Act may be cited as the Yukon
Quartz Mining Act. R.S., c. 301, s. 1(1).

## INTERPRETATION

**2.** (1) In this Act
"adjoining daims" means those that come
into contact one with the other at some
point on the boundary lines, or that share
a common boundary;
"cause" includes any suit or action;
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
the Yukon Territory or such person as for
the time being is invested with and bas the
powers of the Commissioner of the Yukon
Territory ;
"Department" means the Department of
Indian Affairs and Northern Development ;
"ditch" includes flume, pipe, race, or other
artificial means for conducting water by its
own weight, to be used for mining purposes ;
"document" means any assignment, transfer
bill of sale or other writing, which may in
any way affect the title of a minerai claim ;
"entry" means not only the record of a claim
in the books of the mining recorder, but
also the grant that may be issued for such
claim ;
"full claim" means any minerai claim of the
full size ;
"judgment" includes "order" or "decree";
"légal post" means a stake or post of any
kind of Sound timber of sufficient length so
that when firmly planted in the ground in
an upright position, not less than four feet
of such post is above ground; the post must
be of such diameter that when squared or
faced for eighteen inches from the top end,
each face of the squared or faced portion is
not less than four inches in width across the
face for the full eighteen inches, or if a tree
of suitable size is found in position, it may
be made into a post by cutting the tree off
not less than four feet from the ground,
and squaring and facing the upper eighteen
inches, each face of the portion so squared
or faced to be not less than four inches in
width ; whether a post is planted or a stump
of a tree made into a post, a mound of
stones or earth shall be erected around the
base of the post, such mound of earth or
stones to be not less than three feet in
diameter on the ground, and not less than
eighteen inches high, cone-shaped and well
constructed ;
"limestone, marble, clay, gypsum, or any
building stone when mined for building
purposes, earth, ash, mari, gravel, sand", as
well as any élément that may, in the
opinion of the Minister, form a portion of
the agricultural surface of the land, shall
not be considered as minerai within the
meaning of this Act ;
"location line" means a straight line opened
or indicated throughout between No. 1 and
No. 2 location posts of a minerai claim, and
joining them ;
"mill-site" means a plot of ground leased
under section 117 for the purpose of erecting
thereon any machinery or other works for
transporting,crushing,reducingorsampling
ores, or for the transmission of power for
working mines ;
"mine" means any land in which any vein.
Iode, or rock in place, is mined for gold or
other minerais, precious or base, as defined
in this Act ;
"minerai" means ail deposits of gold, silver,
platinum, iridium, or any of the platinum
group of metals, mercury, lead, copper,
iron, tin, zinc, nickel, aluminum, antimony,
arsenic, barium, bismuth, boron, bromide,
cadmium, chromium, cobalt, iodine, mag-
nésium, molybdenum, manganèse, phos-
phorus, plumbago, potassium, sodium,
strontium, sulphur, or any combination of
those éléments with themselves or with any
other éléments, quartz, metallic oxides and
silicates, and the ores of radium, tungsten,
titanium and zirconium, asbestos, emery,
mica, minerai pigments, corundum and
diamonds;
"minerai claim" or "location" means a plot
of ground staked out and acquired under
the provisions of this Act, or under the
régulations or orders in council in force
prior to the 19th day of July 1924 ;
"mining district" means the mining districts
into which the Yukon Territory is divided
under authority of the Y'ukon Placer Mining
Act;
"mining property" includes every minerai
claim, ditch, mill-site, or water right used
for mining purposes, and ail other things
belonging to a mine or used in the working
thereof
"mining recorder" and "mining recorder's
agent" mean the officer appointed for the
particular purpose referred to ;
"Minister" means the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development ;
"record", "register" and "registration" hâve
the same meaning, and mean an entry in
some officiai book kept for that purpose ;
"représentation" or "assessment" means the
work to be done, or the payment to be made
each year to entitle the owner of a claim to
a certificate of work;
"rock in place" means ail rock in place bearing
valuable deposits of minerai within the
meaning of this Act ;
"saline solution" or "brine" for the purpose
of this Act means an aqueous solution of
minerai salts occurring in a natural state,
and containing more than one per cent of
minerai salts in solution ;
"Territory" means the Yukon Territory;
"vein" or "Iode", whenever either of thèse
terms is used "rock in place" shall be
deemed to be included.
(2) This Act is applicable only to minerais
defined as such on territorial lands, situated
vvithin the Yukon Territory.
(3) Ail the provisions of this Act apply, and
shall be deemed to hâve applied on and from
the 19th day of July 1924, to ail minerai
claims or locations whether staked out and
acquired prior or subséquent to that date.
R.S., c. 301, ss. 1, 2; 1953-54, c. 4, s. 12; 1966-
67, c. 25, s. 40.

## DUTIES OF MINING RECORDER

**3.** Every mining recorder shall keep the
following books, to be used for quartz entries:
  * (_a_) record of applications;
(6) record of leases issued ;
  * (_c_) record book ; and
{d) record of documents received. R.S., c.
301, s. 3.

**4.** Every entry made in any of the mining
recorder's books shall show the date upon
which the entry is made. R.S., c. 301, s. 4.

**5.** Ail books of record and documents filed
shall, during office hours, be open to public
inspection free of charge. R.S., c. 301, s. 5.

**6.** A statement of the grants issued and
fées collected shall be rendered to the Minister
by the mining recorder at least every month,
and the statement shall be accompanied by
the amount collected, or by the deposit
receipts, if the money has been deposited to
the crédit of the Receiver General. R.S., c.
301, s. 6.

**7.** Where a minerai claim has been aban-
doned or forfeited by any person, the mining
recorder may, in his discrétion, permit that
person to relocate such minerai claim or any
part thereof, but the relocation does not
préjudice or interfère with the rights or
interests of others. R.S., c. 301, s. 7.

**8.** No claim shall be so relocated by or on
behalf of the former holder thereof within
thirty days of its being so abandoned or
nor until after notice of the
abandonment or forfeiture bas been posted
up for at least a week in a conspicuous place
on the claim and in the office of the mining
recorder, nor until a statutory déclaration has
been filed with the mining recorder that the
notice has been so posted. R.S., c. 301, s. 8.

**9.** The mining recorder may mark out a
space of ground for deposit of material from
any tunnel, claim or mining ground, upon
such terras as he may think just. R.S., c. 301,
s. 9.

**10.** The mining recorder may suramarily
order any mining works to be so carried on as
not to interfère with or endanger the safety
of the public or any employée of such mining
works, any public work, highway, mining
property or minerai claim, mining claim, bed-
rock drain, or bed-rock flume; and any
abandoned works shall by his order be either
filled up or guarded to his satisfaction. R.S.,
c. 301,s. 10.
1 1. Where a claim has been recorded under
any name, and the owner or his agent is
desirous of changing the name, the mining
recorder may, upon application being made
by such owner or agent, and upon payment
of a fee of twenty-five dollars, amend the
record accordingly, but that change of name
does not in any way affect or préjudice any
proceedings or exécution against the owners
of the claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 11.

## WHERE AND BY WHOM CLAIMS MAY BE

## ACQUIRED

**12.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), a person
eighteen years of âge, or over, may personally
or by attorney enter, locate, prospect and
mine upon any vacant territorial lands in the
Yukon Territory, for the minerais defined in
this Act, and upon ail lands in respect of
which the right to so enter, prospect and mine
such minerais has been, or is after the 19th
day of July 1924 reserved to the Crown.
(2) Subject to section 46, during any period
twelve months no person is entitled to
whether personally, as attorney for
or by an attorney, more than seven
claims in the aggregate within a
of ten miles from any other minerai
claim (making a total of eight minerai claims)
located by him personally, as attorney or by
attorney, during that period.
(3) Every power of attorney authorizing a
person to enter, locate, prospect or mine
pursuant to subsection (1) shall be filed with
the mining recorder before the entering,
locating, prospecting or mining is undertaken.
R.S., c. 301,s. 12.

**13.** (1) There shall be excepted from the
provisions of section 12 any land occupied by
any building, and any land falling within the
curtilage of any dwelling-house, and any land
valuable for water-power purposes, or for the
time being actually under cultivation, unless
with the written consent of the owner, lessee
or locatee or of the person in whom the légal
estate therein is vested, and any land on
which any church or cemetery is situated, and
any land lawfuUy occupied for mining
purposes, and also Indian reserves, national
parks and defence, quarantine, or other like
réservations made by the Government of
Canada, except as provided by section 14.
(2) Where two or more claims are contiguous
and comprise a group recorded in the name
of one person and it was the manifest
intention of the locator of such claims as
shown by the sketches accompanying the
applications for the claims to include as part
of the claims ail the lands lying within the
outside limits of such group and extensions
of such outside limits, the vacant lands within
such limits and extension, but outside the
limits of any claim, shall be open for staking
only by the recorded owner of that group ;
but any such land may upon survey be
included in one or more of such claims by a
Dominion land surveyor pursuant to this Act.
(3) Any land that is available only to the
owner of claims under subsection (2)
and is not included in any claim by the
Dominion land surveyor is, upon approval of
the survey of such claims by the Surveyor
General, available for staking b}- any person
under this Act. R.S., c. 301, s. 13.

**14.** No person shall enter upon for mining
purposes or shall mine upon lands owned or
lawfull}' occupied by another until he has
given adéquate security, to the satisfaction of
the mining recorder, for any loss or damage
that may be thereby caused, and persons so
entering, Iccating, prospecting or mining upon
any such lands shall make full compensation
to the owner or occupant of the lands for any
loss or damage so caused, such compensation,
in case of dispute, to be determined by a
court having jurisdiction in mining disputes.
R.S., c. 301, s. 14.

## SIZE OF CLAIMS AND NUMBER THAT MAY BE

## ACQUIRED
jg. (j) Anj' person desiring to locate a
minerai claim shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act with respect to land that ma}- be
located for such purpose, enter upon the land
and locate a rectangular plot of ground not
exceeding one thousand five hundred feet in
length by one thousand five hundred feet in
breadth.
(2) Priority of location shall be deemed to
convey priority of rights to claims located,
but no locator has any prior rights unless and
until he has located his claim in accordance
with this Act.
(3) Priority of right is in ail cases subject to
the claim being recorded within the delays
specified in this Act, and subsequently
maintained in good standing.
(4) AU angles shall be right angles, except
in cases where a boundary line of a previously
located claim is adopted as common to both
locations.
(5) In defining the size of a minerai claim
it shall be measured horizontally, irrespective
the inequalities of the surface of the
R.S., c. 301, s. 15.

**16.** Any person of the prescribed âge
desiring to locate a fractional minerai claim
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
with respect to land that may be located for
that purpose, enter upon the land and locate
any plot of ground lying between and
bounded on opposite sides by previously
located minerai claims and measuring less
than one thousand five hundred feet in length
by one thousand five hundred feet in breadth
as a fractional minerai claim ; such fractional
minerai claim need not be rectangular in form
and the angles need not necessarily be right
angles, and the lines of the previously located
minerai claims, whether surveyed or not,
between which the fractional minerai claim is
located, may be adopted as the boundaries of
the fractional minerai claim. R.S., c. 301,
s. 16.

**17.** (1) The Minister may grant a location
for the mining of iron and mica, not exceeding
one hundred and sixty acres in area, which
shall be bounded by due north and south and
east and west lines, and its breadth and length
shall be equal.
(2) Should au}^ person making any applica-
, i- j. u r il r
tion purportmg to be lor the purpose of
mining iron or mica thus obtain possession of
a valuable minerai deposit other than iron or
mica, his right to that deposit shall be
restricted to the area hereinbefore prescribed
for other minerais, and the rest of the location
in so far as such valuable deposit is concerned,
shall thereupon remain in the Crown for such
disposition as the Minister may direct. R.S.,
c. 301,s. 17.

**18.** The grant issued for such a location
shall include the right to the iron and mica
only, and shall not include the surface. R.S.,
c. 301,s. 18.

**19.** Ail the requirements of this Act as to
the location and survey of other claims govern
such locations as far as they can be made to
apply, and the amount to be expended each
year in représentation work, or to be paid in

## HOW A CLAIM SHALL BE STAKED

**20.** (1) Every claim shall be marked on the
ground by two légal posts firmly planted in
the ground, one at each extremity of the
location line, which shall be known as location
post No. 1 and location post No. 2.
(2) The location line may hâve any bearing
or direction, but must be a straight line
measured horizontally between the location
posts.
(3) The distance between post No. 1 and
post No. 2 shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred feet, but it may be less. R.S., c. 301,
s. 20.
2 1. The inscriptions to be placed on légal
posts shall be and remain clearly and legibly
marked by knife, marking iron, crayon or
pencil. R.S.,c. 301, s, 21.

**22.** On location post No. 1 on the side
facing in the direction of location post No. 2
shall be marked, beginning near the top of
the portion faced and extending downward,
the following:
  * (_a_) No. 1 ;
(6) the name given to the claim ;
  * (_c_) location the letter post indicating No. 2 — "N" the for direction north of or
northerly, "S" for south or southerly, "W"
for west or westerly, and "E" for east or
easterly ;
  * (_d_) the number of feet lying to the right
and the number of feet lying to the left of
the location line— "R" for right and "L"
for left ;
  * (_e_) the month and date of the month upon
which the location was made ;
  * (_j_) the year ; and
  * (_g_) the name of the person locating the
claim. R.S.,c. 301,8.22.

**23.** On location post No. 2 shall be marked
on the side of that post facing in the direction
of location post No. 1, beginning near the
upper end of the portion faced and extending
downward, the following:
  * (_a_) No. 2;
(6) the name given to the claim ;
  * (_c_) the month and date of the month upon
which the location was made ;
  * (_d_) the year; and
  * (_e_) the name of the person locating the
claim. R.S., c. 301,s. 23.

**24.** The locator standing at location post
No. 1 and facing in the direction of post No.
2 shall hâve the right and left of the location
line to his right and left respectively. R.S., c.
301, s. 24.

**25.** The markings on the location posts of
a fractional claim shall be the same as those
upon a claim of the full size, with the addition
of the letter "F" for fractional immediately
below the name given to the claim, and below
this the length of the location line in feet.
R.S.,c. 301,s. 25.

**26.** In case it is found impossible, owing to
the présence of water or other insurmountable
obstacle, to set post No. 2 in its proper position
at one end of the location line, the locator
may set up a "witness post" on the location
line as near as possible to where post No. 2
should hâve been placed, and upon this
witness post he shall place, in addition to that
alread}' prescribed in this Act to be placed on
post No. 2, the letters "W.P." and the distance
in feet and the direction of the point at which
post No. 2 would hâve been placed had it
been possible to do so. R.S., c. 301, s. 26.

**27.** (1) If a locator marks his location by
means of a witness post and it is subsequently
ascertained to the satisfaction of the Com-
missioner that such action was not necessarj',
and that it was possible at the time to set
post No. 2 in its proper place on the location
line, then such witness post shall be considered
and dealt with as location post No. 2 of the
claim and shall be regarded as the termination
of the location line.
(2) Location post No. 1, however, shall not
under any circumstances be marked with a
post. R.S., c. 301, s. 27.

**28.** When a claim has been located the
shall immediately mark the location
between posts No. 1 and No. 2 so that it
can be distinctly seen throughout its entire
length; in a timbered locality, the marking
shall be done by blazing trees and cutting
underbrush, and in a locality where there is
neither timber nor underbrush the locator
shall set légal posts or erect monuments of
earth or rock not less than eighteen inches
high and three feet in diameter at the base.
R.S., c. 301, s. 28.

**29.** (1) The sides of a minerai claim located
as of the full size shall be parallel to the
location line of such claim, subject, however,
to any claims previously located, and the
ends of a minerai claim shall be at right
angles to the location line, subject, however,
to interférence with claims already located.
(2) The location line may form one of the
sides of a minerai claim, or a portion of the
location may lie on either side of such line,
but the number of feet lying to the right of
the location line and the number of feet lying
to the left of the location line shall not exceed
in ail one thousand five hundred feet. R.S.,
c. 301,3.29.

**30.** The following is an example of inscrip-
tions to be placed on posts:
Inscription on location
at the time the claim is recorded, and
form a part of the record of such claim.
(2) The locator shall submit with his
application a plan in duplicate showing as
clearly as possible the position of the location
applied for in its relation to the prominent
topographical features of the district and to
^he adjoining claims or some other known
point and the position of the stakes by which
the location is marked on the ground. R.S., c.
301, s. 31.

**32.** Failure on the part of any locator of
any minerai claim located in the Yukon
Terntory prior to the 19th day of July 1924
to hâve complied in every respect with the
provisions of the mining régulations or of this
Act governing the location of such minerai
claims, as to exact size of location posts and
discovery posts, the érection of a mound of
stones or earth around the base of posts, and
failure to hâve discovered minerai or minerais
in place within the area of such claims or on
the location, shall be deemed not to invalidate
such location, or the record and title of such
claims, if there has been an approximate and
substantial compliance with the mining régu-
lations or law in force and regulating and
governing the location and recording of
minerai claims at the time of the location of
such claims, and if the non-observance of any
of the requirements as to location, application
and recording is not of a character calculated
to mislead other persons desiring to locate
claims in the vicinitv. R.S., c. 301, s. 32.

## REMOVING OR DEFACING POSTS

**33.** (1) It shall not be lawful to move post
No. 1; post No. 2 may be moved only by a
Dominion land surveyor when it is found
upon making a survey that the distance
between post No. 1 and post No. 2 exceeds
one thousand five hundred feet, in order to
place post No. 2 at a distance of one thousand
five hundred feet from post No. 1 on the line
of location.
(2) When the distance between post No. 1
and post No. 2 is less than one thousand five
hundred feet the claim shall not extend
post No. 2 as originally placed. R.S.,
34, It is not lawful for any person to move
any location post or to deface or to alter in
any manner the notices on the same except
as provided in this Act. R.S., c. 301, s. 34.

**35.** Any person removing or disturbing
with intent to remove any légal post, stake,
picket or other mark placed under this Act or
defacing or altering in any manner the notices
on any of the légal posts placed thereon under
this Act, is on summarj- conviction liable to a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars and
costs; and in default of payment of the fine
and costs to imprisonment for any period not
exceeding six months. R.S., c. 301, s. 35.

**36.** When a fractional minerai claim has
been located between previously located and
unsurv'eyed minerai claims, and when anj-
such previously located minerai claims are
surve^'ed, if any of the posts of the fractional
minerai claim are found to be on the
previously located minerai claims, the location
of the fractional minerai claim is not invalid
by reason of the location posts of the fractional
minerai claim being on the previously located
minerai claims, and the owner of the fractional
minerai claim may, by obtaining the permis-
sion of the mining recorder of the district,
move the posts of the fractional minerai claim
and place them on the surveyed line of the
adjoining previously located minerai claims.
R.S., c. 301, s. 36.

**37.** Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to prevent Dominion land surveyors in their
opérations from taking up posts or other
boundarj' marks when necessary. R.S., c. 301,
s. 37.

## RECORDING

**38.** (1) Every person locating a minerai
claim shall record it with the mining recorder
... i • i i i
of the district within which the claim is
situated within fifteen days after the location
thereof if located within ten miles of the
office of the recorder.
(2) One additional day shall be allowed for
fraction thereof.
(3) Such record shall be made in a book to
be kept for the purpose in the office of the
mining recorder in which shall be inserted the
name of the claim, the name of the locator,
the locality, the direction and length of the
line from post No. 1 to post No. 2, the date
of the location, and the date of record.
(4) Such record shall be, as nearly as may
be possible, in Form 3 of Schedule I, which
form. duly completed and signed, shall be
given by the mining recorder to the locator or
his agent.
(5) A claim that has not been recorded
within the prescribed period shall be deemed
to hâve been abandoned and forfeited, without
any déclaration of cancellation or abandon-
ment on the part of the Crown. R.S., c. 301,
s. 38.

**39.** (1) In the event of the claim being
more than one hundred miles from the
recorder's office, and situa ted where other
claims are being located, the locators, not less
than five in number, are au thorized to meet
and appoint one of their num ber an emergency
recorder, who may receive applications for
claims located in accordance with this Act.
(2) The emergency recorder shall note on
each application the day upon which the
application was received bj- him and the
amount of fées paid in respect thereto. R.S.,
c. 301, s. 39.

**40.** (1) The emergency recorder shall, at
^^^ earliest possible date after his appoint-
ment, notify the Government mining recorder
for the district in which the claims are that
such appointment has been made, and he
shall deliver to that mining recorder the
applications that he may bave received for
minerai claims and the fées that he may hâve
collected for recording those claims.
(2) The Government mining recorder shall
then grant to each person from whom the
recorder has accepted an applica-
and the fee prescribed by this Act, an
for his claim in Form 3 of Schedule I.
(3) Each such entry shall date from the day
the emergency recorder accepted the applica-
tion and fee.
(4) Where the emergency recorder fails,
within four months, to notify the mining
recorder of his appointment and to deliver to
him the applications for claims received and
the fées collected, the mining recorder may
refuse to grant entry for such claims. R.S., c.
301, s. 40.

**41.** (1) No minerai claim shall be recorded
unless the application is accompanied by an
affidavit or solemn déclaration made by the
applicant in Form 1 of Schedule I, or, if it is
a fractional claim, in Form 2.
(2) Each application shall be filed m
duplicate with the mining recorder. R.S. c.
301, s. 41.

**42.** (1) Failure on the part of the locator
of a minerai claim to complj' in every respect
with the foregoing provisions shall not be
deemed to invalidate such location, if upon
the facts it appears to the satisfaction of the
mining recorder that the locator has staked
out the location as nearly as possible in the
manner prescribed, and that there has been
on his part a hona fide attempt to comply
with ail the provisions of this Act, and that
the non-observance of an.v of the formalities
hereinbefore referred to is not of a character
calculated to mislead other persons desiring
to locate claims in the vicinity.
(2) The mining recorder ma}', before grant-
ing entrj-, require the locator to immediately
remedy any material defaults committed in
the observance of the formalities required by
this Act in respect of the location of a minerai
claim, and if such defaults are not remedied
within a period to be fixed by the mining
recorder, and to his satisfaction, entry may
be refused. R.S., c. 301, s. 42.

**43.** A locator is not entitled to a record of
^ minerai claim until he has furnished the
mining recorder with ail the particulars
necessarj- for such record. R.S., c. 301, s. 43.

**44.** (1) The record of a minerai claim shall
made at the office of the mining recorder
the district in wliich the claim is situated,
but the application ma}' be made to a mining
recorder's agent to be forwarded to the mining
recorder for the district in which the claim is
situated.
(2) The date upon which the application
and the fee may be received in the office of
the mining recorder for the district in which
the claim is situated governs, and shall be
considered the date of the application. R.S.,
c. 301, s. 44.

**45.** (1) As soon as reasonably possible after
the recording of the claim the holder of the
claim shall affix or cause to be affixed securely
to each of the posts of the said claim a meta!
tag plainly marked or impressed with the
recorded number and letter or letters, if any,
of the claim and in the event of default, the
mining recorder may after a hearing, cancel
the entry for the daim upon the application
of any person who, in the opinion of the
mining recorder, bas been misled by the lack
of such tags; notice of the hearing together
with a copy of the application shall be served
on the recorded owner of the claim in the
manner directed by the mining recorder at
least thirty days before the date fixed for the
hearing.
(2) The mining reeorder on application
shall supply the numbered tags, mentioned
in subsection (1), free of charge.
(3) This section applies in respect of ail
claims recorded after the Ist day of June 1948.
R.S., c. 301,s. 45.

**46.** (1) Where a tunnel is run for the
development of a vein or Iode, the owner of
such tunnel, in addition to any minerai claim
legally held by hira, bas the right to ail veins
or Iodes discovered in such tunnel, if the
ground containing such veins or Iodes is
marked out by him as a minerai claim, and
such veins or Iodes are not included in any
existing minerai claim.
(2) Any money or labour expended in
constructing a tunnel to develop a vein or
Iode shall be deemed to hâve been expended
on such vein or Iode. R.S., c. 301, s. 46.

**47.** The holder of a minerai claim is
to ail minerais to which this Act
applies that may lie within the boundaries of
claim continued vertically downwards,
R.S., c. 301, s. 47.

**48.** Any location made on Sunday or any
public holidav is not for that reason invalid.
R.S., c. 301, s. 48.

**49.** The interest of the holder of a minerai
claim shall, prior to the issue of a lease, be
deemed to be a chattel interest, équivalent to
a lease of the minerais in or under the land
for one year, and thence from year to year,
subject to the performance and observance of
ail the terms and conditions of this Act. R.S.,
c. 301, s. 49.

## ABANDONMENT

**50.** (1) The holder of a minerai claim may
at any time abandon or relinquish the claim
if he has complied in every respect with this
Act and ail payments on account of rental or
other liability to the Crown, due by him in
connection with that claim, hâve been fuUy
made.
(2) Notice in writing of his intention to
abandon shall be given to the mining recorder,
and from the date of the record of the notice
ail interest of the holder in such claim ceases.
R.S., c. 301, s. 50.
5 1. When the holder of a minerai claim
abandons it he has the right to take from the
claim any machinery and any personal
property that he may hâve placed on the
claim, and any ore that he may bave extracted
therefrom, within such time as shall be fixed
by the mining recorder, if payments due on
account of rental or other liability to the
Crown in connection with the claim hâve been
fully made. R.S., c. 301, s. 51.

## GROUPING

**52.** (1) Adjoining claims, not exceeding
sixteen in number, may be grouped together
for the performance of work b}' the owner or
owners thereof upon filing with the mining
recorder at any time before the recording of
the work a notice of his or their intention so
to group such claims and obtaining a
certificate in Form 6 of Schedule L
(2) The holder or holders of a certificate in
f-i z? r ci i i i t e
roTm 6 01 bchedule 1 may perform on any
one or more of the claims in respect of which
the certificate was issued ail or any part of
the work required to entitle him or them to a
certificate of work for each claim so held by
him or them, but if the work is not done or if
payment in lieu thereof is not made as
prescribed in section 54, the claims shall be
deemed to be vacant and abandoned without
any déclaration of cancellation or forfeiture
on the part of the Crown.
(3) Claims in respect of which a certificate
in Form 6 of Schedule I has been issued and
claims owned by one person within a mining
district, may, on application by the owners
thereof, be made renewable on any one date.
(4) The mining recorder shall charge, for
each claim, one dollar and a quarter for each
three months or portion thereof that it is
necessary to extend the record to make claims
renewable on the same date, and the work, or
payment in lieu thereof, required for the
fractional part of the year for which each
claim is extended shall be allowed at the rate
of twenty-five dollars for each three months
or fraction thereof, and such payment or work
shall be made or performed prior to the date
upon which ail are so made renewable. R.S.,
c. 301, s. 52.

## REPRESENTATION

**53.** (1) Any persou having duly located
^^'^ recorded a minerai claim is entitled. to
hold it for the period of one year from the
date of recording the claim, and thence from
year to year without the necessity for further
recording ; and during that year and each
succeeding j'ear the locator shall do, or cause
to be done, work on the claim itself to the
value of one hundred dollars, and shall within
fourteen days after the expiration of the year,
satisfy the mining recorder that such work
has been done, by an affidavit in Form 4 of
Schedule I, and setting out a detailed
of the work, and shall obtain from
the mining recorder a certificate in Form 5 of
I that such work has been done.
(2) Ail work done outside of a minerai
claim with intent to work the claim shall, if
such work has direct relation and is in direct
proximity to the claim, be deemed, if to the
satisfaction of the mining recorder, for the
purpose of this section, to be work done on
the claim.
(3) Where more work is performed by or on
behalf of the recorded owner of a claim than
is required by this Act during any year to be
performed, the excess work up to a value of
four hundred dollars, upon proof that it has
been performed in accordance with this Act,
shall be applied by the mining recorder upon
work required to be done during the subséquent
year or years ; excess work may onh' be
recorded during the year in which it is
performed or within fourteen days of the
expiry of that year.
(4) Where it is shown that a recorded owner
has done work or has had work performed for
him in geological investigations, aerial recon-
naissance or other like preliminary opérations
that appear to be essential to the successful
location of commercial ore bodies on a claim
or a number of claims grouped together for
the performance of work, such work or any
portion thereof may be considered by the
Commissioner, in his discrétion, as représen-
tation work if it has been performed in the
first three years subséquent to the date of the
record of the claim or group of claims
affected ; but such work shall not be accepted
in satisfaction of the requirements for a
certificate of improvements nor accepted as
excess représentation work on any claim
beyond the termination of the third j-ear after
the date of the record of such claim.
(5) The Governor in Council may, by
régulation, upon the report of the Minister
that due to the market price of metals and
other gênerai conditions over which the owners
of minerai claims exercise no control, the
margin of profit that might reasonably be
derived from the efficient and economical
opération of such claims has, in the opinion
the Minister, been practically eliminated
for any other reason that to the Minister
appear to be sufficient, grant such relief
to the annual représentation work or
in lieu thereof as may be necessary
under the circumstances.
(6) Should it be proved to the satisfaction
of the mining recorder that any person bas
  * (_a_) been guilty of misrepresentation in any
of the statements required under this Act
to be made by him under oath, or
(6) removed or destroyed with intent to
remove, or defaced any légal post or stake
or other mark placed under this Act,
the mining recorder may, in bis discrétion,
order that such person be debarred from the
right to obtain entry for, or a certificate of
work in connection with, anj' minerai claim
for any length of time the mining recorder
deems advisable.
(7) An appeal lies from any such décision
of the mining recorder to the Commissioner.
R.S., c. 301, s. 53.

**54.** (1) The holder of a minerai claim may,
in lieu of the work required to be done by
section 53 on a claim each year, pay to the
mining recorder in whose office the claim is
recorded the sum of one hundred dollars, and
receive from the mining recorder a receipt for
the payment.
(2) Such payment and the record thereof in
any year relieves the person making it from
the necessity of doing any work during the
year in and for which, and upon the claim in
respect of which, the payment is recorded,
and he is entitled to a certificate from the
mining recorder that such payment bas been
made and entitles him to hold the claim for
the ensuing year. R.S., c. 301, s. 54.

**55.** (1) If the amount of work or payment
in lieu thereof prescribed by this Act is not
done or made during the year, the claim
lapses on the expiry of the year, and is
forthwith open for location under this Act
without any déclaration of cancellation on
the part of the Crown.
(2) If the owner of the claim bas performed
the required work during the year, but has
failed to furnish the prescribed évidence of
that work having been performed, the mining
recorder may issue a grant to another person
has duly located, in the manner prescribed
in this Act, the area embraced in the daim,
or any portion thereof ; but the owner may,
within six months after the expiration of the
year, apply for a renewal grant and for the
cancellation of any other grant issued in
respect of the claim, or for any portion
thereof, and the latter grant shall be cancelled
by the mining recorder; or if a grant has not
been issued for the claim, any pending
application for the claim shall be refused,
upon proof to the satisfaction of the mining
recorder that the required work was performed
by or on behalf of the owner, and upon the
owner pa3'ing the expenses to which the
person locating the claim may hâve been put
in locating and applying for the daim, and if
a grant has been issued therefor, paying also
ail expenses to ^vhich that person may hâve
been put in obtaining the same, and also
compensation for any bona fide work that he
may hâve performed thereon bj' reason of
such grant.
(3) Where the owner of a daim fails to
obtain the required certificate of work within
the time specified in section 53, the fee for
that certificate, if paid within three months
after the year has expired, is fifteen dollars,
and after three months and within six months
from such date is twenty-five dollars.
(4) If the owner of a claim fails within a
period of six months after the expiration of
the year to satisfy the mining recorder that
the prescribed work has been done and to
obtain a certificate in Form 5 of Schedule I,
his interest or right in, to, or in respect of, the
said claim is, at the expiration of such period
of six months, ipso facto, void, without any
notice or déclaration of cancellation by or on
behalf of the Crown, and without judicial
inquiry, notwithstanding the fact that the
prescribed work may hâve been duly per-
formed on the claim within the year as
required by this Act, but not proved as
aforesaid. R.S., c. 301, s. 55.

**56.** The Governor in Council may make
allies, during the period of their service as
and one year thereafter, from the
of this Act respecting forfeiture,
for non-performance of work or non-payment
of assessments, or rentals, of minerai claims
held by them at the time of their enlistment.
1966-67, c. 96, s. 64.

**57.** (1) If the recorded owner of a fractional
minerai claim furnishes évidence, to the
satisfaction of the mining recorder, that the
area of that claim is less than twentj'-five
acres, the expenditure required to be incurred
each year in mining opérations on such
fractional claim, or the payment to be made
in lieu thereof, to entitle the recorded owner
to a certificate of work is one-half that
required under this Act, in respect of a full
claim.
(2) Where, upon survey, a fractional claim
in connection with which such représentations
hâve been made is found to contain twenty-
five acres, or more, the recorded owner thereof
shall pay to the mining recorder whatever
additional amount may be necessary to
represent a full claim, with interest, before he
is entitled to receive a certificate of improve-
ments in connection with such daim. R.S., c.
301, s. 57.

**58.** Where two or more persons own a claim
each such person shall contribute, proportion-
ately to his interest, to the work required to
be done by section 53 and to the payment of
renewal fées, and if it is proved to the mining
recorder after a notice of hearing has been
served on ail parties interested, in the manner
directed bj* the mining recorder, that any co-
owner has not so contributed, his interest shall
become vested by order of the mining recorder
in the other co-owners in proportion to their
respective interests. R.S., c. 301, s. 58.
DISPUTES

**59.** In case of any dispute as to the location
a minerai claim the title to the claim shall
recognized according to the priority of
location, subject to any question as to
validity of the record itself, and subject
to the locator having complied with
ail the terms and conditions of this Act. R.S.,
c. 301,8.59.

**60.** Upon any dispute as to the title to any
minerai claim, no irregularity happening prior
to the date of the record of the last certificate
of work affects the title thereto, and it shall
be assumed that up to that date the title to
such claim was perfect, except upon suit by
the Attorney General of Canada based upon
fraud. R.S., c. 301, s. 60.

**61.** Whenever through the acts or default
of any person other than the recorded owner
of a minerai claim or his agent by him duly
authorized, the évidence of the location or
record on the ground, or the situation of a
minerai claim has been destroyed, lost or
effaced, or is difficult of ascertainment, effect
shall be given to same as far as possible, and
the court has power to make ail necessary
inquiries, directions and références in the
premises, for the purpose of carrying out the
object hereof, and vesting title in the first
bona fide acquirer of the claim. R.S., c. 301,
s. 61.

**62.** No person shall suffer from any acts of
omission or commission, or delays on the part
of any Government officiai, if such can be
proved. R.S., c. 301, s. 62.
TITLE

**63.** (1) Payment may be made to the
mining recorder of the sum of five hundred
dollars in lieu of représentation on a claim of
the ordinary size, and in the case of a claim
acquired under section 17 payment of one
thousand dollars may be made in lieu of such
représentation.
(2) In the case where payment in lieu of
représentation is made, the recorded owner of
the claim shall comply with ail other
provisions of this Act, except those provisions
that apply solely to the work required to be
done on the claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 63.

**64.** (1) Whenever the lawful holder of a
7 of Schedule I, in respect of such claim,
unless proceedings by a person claiming an
adverse right under section 69 hâve been
taken
  * (_a_) done or caused to be done work on the
claim in developing a mine to the value of
five hundred dollars, exclusive of the cost
of ail houses, buildings and other like
improvements, or made payment in lieu of
work as provided in section 54; the value
of the work done, as assessed by the mining
recorder, and the amount paid and accepted
in lieu of work shall together be equal to at
least five hundred dollars ; in the case of a
fractional claim, however, the work to be
done or the payment to be made in lieu
thereof shall be that specified in section 57 ;
for the purposes of this section, work done
on a claim by a predecessor or predecessors
in title shall be deemed to hâve been done
by the person who received a transfer of
such claim ; the cost of the survey not to
exceed one hundred dollars, may be counted
as work done on the claim, if it has been
accepted in lieu of représentation work;
  * (_b_) found a vein or Iode within the limits
of such claim ;
  * (_c_) had the claim surveyed at his own
expense in accordance with instructions
from the Surveyor General, b}- an authorized
Dominion land surveyor, and had the
survey thereof duly approved ;
  * (_d_) has posted in some conspicuous part of
the land embraced in the survey a copy of
the plan of the claim signed and certified
as accurate under oath by the surveyor, and
a legible notice in writing in Form 8 of
Schedule I, of his intention to apply for a
certificate of improvements, and has also
posted a similar notice in the mining
recorder's office ; such notice shall contain
  * (_i_) the name of the claim,
  * (_ii_) the name of the lawful holder thereof,
  * (_iii_) his intention to apply for a certificate
of improvements at the end of sixty days
for the purposes of obtaining a lease, and
  * (_iv_) the date of the notice ;
  * (_e_) inserted a copy of such notice in a
Canadian newspaper published in and
circulating in the district in which the claim
is situated (such paper to be approved by
the mining recorder) for at least sixty days
prior to such application, which insertion
can be made at any time after the posting
of the notice on the daim ; if no newspaper
is published in the district, then the notice
shall appear in the Canadian newspaper
published nearest to the district ;
(J) has filed with the mining recorder a
copy of the surveyor's original plan of the
claim, signed and certified as accurate
under oath by the surveyor, immediately
after posting the notice on the claim of his
intention to apply for a certificate of
improvements ; and
  * (_g_) filed with the mining recorder an
affidavit of the holder of the claim, or his
duly authorized agent, in Form 9 of
Schedule I.
(2) At the expiration of the term of the said
publication, if no action has been commenced
and notice thereof filed with the mining
recorder, he shall forward to the owner or
agent the certificate of improvements issued,
and to the Department a copy thereof,
together with the several documents referred
to above, and a certificate in Form 10 of
Schedule I showing that the notice provided
by paragraph (l)((i), or by section 80 has been
posted in his office, and the plan deposited
for référence therein from the date of the first
appearance of the said notice in the nearest
local newspaper and continuously therefrom
for a period of at least sixty days, and
containing the full Christian and surname of
the recorded owner, or of each of the recorded
owners, as well as their occupations and
respective interests.
(3) A certificate of improvements shall not
be issued until a report has been furnished by
an officer of the Department, or some person
to the mining recorder, to the
effect that upon inspection he was satisfied
that the required expenditure in developing
a mine had been actually incurred, and that
a vein or Iode had been found within the
of the claim.
(4) Delay in having an inspection made
after the recorded owner of a minerai claim
has fully complied with the above require-
ments does not render it necessary for that
owner to perform further représentation work,
or make payment in lieu of work because of
such delay. R.S., c. 301, s. 64.

**65.** In case a claim is situated in a remote
part of the country, very difficult of access,
where other claims hâve not been recorded,
and where other persons are not engaged in
prospecting, and where no newspaper is
published within a distance of one hundred
miles, the Commissioner may , in his discrétion,
waive posting of notice on the claim and of
its publication in a newspaper as provided in
paragraphs 64{l)(cO and (e). R.S., c. 301, s. 65.

**66.** A certificate of improvements when
issued as aforesaid shall not be impeached in
any court on an}' ground except that of fraud.
R.S., c. 301, s. 66.

**67.** After the issue and recording of a
certificate of improvements, and while the
certificate is in force but a lease not yet
issued, it is not necessary to do any work on
the claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 67.

**68.** The holder of a minerai claim for
which a certificate of improvements has been
granted and recorded is entitled to a lease of
the claim upon payment being made within
three months of the rental and fee prescribed
bv Schedule IL R.S., c. 301, s. 68.

## ADVERSE RIGHT

**69.** (1) Where any person claims an adverse
right of any kind, either to possession of the
minerai claim referred to in the application
for certificate of improvements, or any part
thereof, or to the minerais contained therein,
he shall, within sixty days after the first
publication in a newspaper, as provided by
this Act, of the notice referred to in paragraph
64(l)(e) or in section 80, but not later, unless
such time is extended by spécial order of the
court upon cause being shown, commence
légal action to détermine the question of the
of possession or otherwise enforce his
claim and shall file a copy of the writ,
information, bill of complaint, or other
initiatory proceeding in the action with the
mining recorder of the district or mining
division in which the claim is situated within
twenty days from the commencement of the
action, and shall prosecute the action with
reasonable diligence to final judgment, and
failure se to commence or so to prosecute
shall be deemed to be a waiver of the
plaintiff's claim.
(2) After final judgment has been rendered
in the action, the person, or any one of the
persons entitled to possession of the claim or
anj' part thereof, may file a certified copy of
the claim in the office of the mining recorder.
(3) After the filing of the final judgment,
and upon compliance with ail the requirements
of section 64, such person or persons are
entitled to the issue to him or to them of a
certificate of improvements in respect of the
claim or the portion thereof that he or they
appear from the décision of the court rightiy
to possess. R.S., c. 301, s. 69.

**70.** (1) Where an adverse daim affects only
a portion of the ground for which application
is made for a certificate of improvements, the
applicant may relinquish the portion covered
by the adverse claim, and still be entitled to
a certificate of improvements for the undis-
puted remainder of his claim, upon complying
with the requirements of this Act.
(2) When judgment in such a case is
rendered by the court a mémorandum of the
judgment shall be entered in the "record
book" by the mining recorder; and if by any
judgment the original boundaries of any
claim are changed, a plan made by a
Dominion land surveyor, and signed by the
judge b}- whom the judgment has been given,
shall be filed with the mining recorder, who
shall forward it to the Department. R.S., c.
301, s. 70.

## ADDRESS FOR SERVICE
7 1. Every application for a minerai claim
every other application, and every
or assignment of a minerai claim, or
of an interest therein, acquired under this
Act, shall contain, or shall hâve endorsed
thereon, the place of résidence and the post
office address of the applicant, transférée or
assignée, and his occupation ; and no applica-
tion, transfer or assignment shall be accepted
or recorded unless it conforms with this
provision. R.S., c. 301, s. 71.

## WHAT ENTRY OR LEASE CONVEYS

**72.** (1) The holder of a minerai claim, by
entry or by lease, located on vacant territorial
lands is entitled to ail minerais within the
meaning of this Act found in veins, iodes or
rock in place, and whether such minerais are
found separate or in combination with each
other in, upon or under the lands included in
such entry or lease ; together with the right to
enter upon and use and occupy the surface of
the claim, or such portion thereof and to such
extent as the Minister may consider necessary,
for the efficient and miner-like opération oî
the mines and minerais contained in the
claim, but for no other purpose; including
the right to eut free of dues such of the timber
on the claim or such portion thereof as may
be necessary for the working of the claim, but
not for sale or traffic, except where such
timber has been granted or disposed of prior
to the date of entry.
(2) The timber agent, however, may permit
any person to eut and remove from the claim,
timber for his own use for mining purposes,
when such timber cannot otherwise be had
within a reasonable distance, but no such
permit conveys the right to eut or remove
timber required by the holder of the claim for
his mining opérations actually in progress.
(3) The Minister may, upon application,
grant to the holder of a minerai claim, in
good standing, located on vacant territorial
lands, and acquired by entry or by lease, a
lease of the whole or any portion of the
available surface rights of such minerai claim
at a rental of one dollar an acre per annum,
payable yearly in advance.
(4) The term of such surface lease shall not
exceed the term of the record grant or lease
issued for the minerais under this Act or
mining régulations, and shall be
to such grant.
(5) The Minister may at any time, by
giving the lessee three months notice in
of his intention, terminate such surface
lease, without compensation to the lessee for
the termination or for any buildings or other
improvements that he may hâve placed upon
the location, but the lessee may be given the
privilège of removing from the location any
such buildings and improvements that may
hâve been placed thereon by him.
(6) The lessee shall not assign, transfer or
sublet the rights described in such surface
lease, or any portion thereof, without the
consent in writing of the Minister being first
obtained. R.S., c. 301,s. 72.

**73.** (j) The timber OU a minerai claim
shall, subject to the rights existing at the time
of the application therefor, be reserved until
the mining recorder certifies that the timber
is required for use in connection with mining
opérations actually in progress on such
minerai claim, when the right to use such
timber, or anj' portion thereof, free of dues,
may be given the holder of such minerai
claim b}- the Crown timber and land agent
with the approval of the Commissioner.
(2) The Commissioner, however, may
authorize the timber agent to issue a permit
to any person to eut and remove from such
minerai claim timber required by him for his
own use in mining opérations when such
timber cannot otherwise be obtained within a
reasonable distance of the place of his mining
opérations. R.S., c. 301, s. 73.

**74.** A lease of a minerai claim located on
lands the surface rights of which hâve been
disposed of but the right whereon to enter,
prospect and mine for minerais has been
reserved to the Crown, conveys to the lessee
the minerais within the meaning of this Act
found in veins or iodes, or rock in place,
whether such minerais are found separately
or in combination with each other, that may
be in, upon, or under the land described in
the lease, but conveys no right of entry upon
such surface. R.S.,c. 301, s. 74.
land lawfully occupied under a timber licence
the lease conveys the minerais within the
meaning of this Act found in veins or iodes,
or rock in place, subject to section 14, but
reserves the timber. R.S., c. 301, s. 75.

**76.** A lease of a minerai claim located on
lands the surface rights of which hâve been
disposed of but the right whereon to enter
and mine gold and silver has been reserved to
the Crown, conveys to the lessee the right to
the gold and silver found in veins or Iodes, or
rock in place, that may be in, upon, or under
the land described in the lease, but conveys
no right of entry upon the surface. R.S., c.
301, s. 76.

**77.** A lease of a minerai claim issued under
this Act reserves to the Crown such right or
rights-of-way and of entry as may be required
under any law or régulation in that behalf in
force on or after the 19th day of July 1924 in
connection with the construction, maintenance
and use of works for the conveyance of water
for mining opérations. R.S., c. 301, s. 77.

**78.** Where two or more persons hâve the
right of renewing a lease from the Crown,
each such person shall proportionately to his
interest contribute to the payment of rental
and fées for the renewal of that lease, and if
it is proved to the Commissioner after a notice
of hearing has been served on ail parties
interested, in the manner directed by the
Commissioner, that one of those persons has
not contributed and that the other person or
persons hâve paid the full rental and fées for
the renewal of the lease, the Minister may
issue the lease to the person or persons who
hâve paid the rental and fées. R.S., c. 301,
s. 78.

## SURVEYS

**79.** (1) The recorded owner of a minerai
shall hâve a survey thereof made at his
expense by a duly qualified Dominion
surveyor under instructions from the
General within one year from the
upon which notification by the Minister
do so may be sent to him.
(2) Such notification shall not be given
until the expiration of at least one year from
the date upon which the claim was recorded.
(3) If the survey is not made, and if the
returns of the survey are not received and
approved by the Surveyor General within one
year from the date of notification, the entry
granted for the minerai claim is subject to
immédiate cancellation in the discrétion of
the Minister.
(4) The owner of a claim may, however,
hâve such survey made at any time after
obtaining record without any notification
having been sent to him to do so. R.S., c. 301,
s. 79.

**80.** (1) The cost of a survey of a minerai
claim, made in accordance with paragraph
64(l)(c), may be accepted in lieu of représen-
tation work on the claim for the year in which
the survey is made ; and the survey so made
shall be accepted as definitely establishing
the boundaries of the claim, if notice of the
survey in Form 11 of Schedule I is immediately
inserted, for a period of not less than sixty
days, in a newspaper published in or circulat-
ing in the district in which the claim is
situated, such paper to be approved by the
mining recorder, and if the owner of the claim
prior to the first appearance of this advertise-
ment causes to be posted in a conspicuous
spot on the claim, and in the office of the
mining recorder for the district, a notice in
the same form of his intention to advertise
the surve}- of the daim, and also a copy of
the plan of the survey prepared and certified
correct, under oath, by a Dominion land
surveyor.
(2) The survey shall be accepted as def ining
absolutely the boundaries of the claim
surveyed, if it remains unprotested during the
period of publication, and if it has been dulj'
approved by the Surveyor General.
(3) If within the time specified the survey
is protested the protest shall be heard and
decided upon by procédure similar to that
provided for in section 69. R.S., c. 301, s. 80.

**81.** (1) The surveyor shall accurately
define and mark the boundaries of such claim
the claim, inscribe thereon clearly and legibly,
by means of a cutting instrument, the name
of the claim so surveyed, and shall, on
completion of survey, forward to the Surveyor
General at Ottawa the original field notes
and plan signed and certified as accurate
under oath.
(2) After a certificate of improvements has
issued in respect of any claim so surveyed,
prima facie proof of its location upon the
ground may be given by any person who has
seen and who can describe the position of
such posts purporting to be marked as
aforesaid. R.S., c. 301, s. 81.

**82.** Where either post No. 1 or post No. 2
of a minerai claim is on the boundary Une of
a previously located claim, and the boundary
line is not at right angles to that location
line, the Dominion land surveyor when
making the survey may include the fraction
so created within the claim that is being
surveyed, if that fraction is available and
open to disposai and the claim including the
fraction does not exceed in area sixty acres.
R.S., c. 301,s. 82.

**83.** A Dominion land surveyor when sur-
veying a fractional minerai claim maj* survey
that claim so that it contains as nearly as
possible ail the unoccupied ground lying
between the previously located minerai claims
as described in the affidavit and sketch
furnished by the locator when the claim was
recorded, if the area of the claim as surveyed
is less than sixty acres. R.S., c. 301, s. 83.

**84.** Where a Dominion land surveyor
pursuant to section 82 or 83 includes in a
claim more than fifty-one and sixty-five one-
hundredths acres before the survey is approved
by the Surveyor General, the recorded owner
shall pay to the mining recorder as a penaltj'
the sum of five dollars for each acre or
fraction thereof included in the claim in
excess of fifty-one and sixty-five one-hun-
dredths acres. R.S., c. 301, s. 84.

**85.** The surveyor shall, in the discrétion of
boundary, so that the position of the daim
be definitely fixed on the plans of the
Department. R.S., c. 301, s. 85.

**86.** It is the duty of the surveyor, before
proceeding with the surv-ey, to examine the
application made for the claim and the plan
that accompanied that application, and before
completing the survey to ascertain by careful
examination of the ground, or by ail other
reasonable means in his power, whether or
not any other subsisting claim conflicts with
the claim he is surveying, and he shall furnish
with his returns of survey a certificate, duly
signed by him, in the following form:
I hereby certify that I hâve carefully examined the
ground included in minerai claim surveyed
by me, and hâve otherwise made ail reasonable investiga-
tions in my power to ascertain if there was an}- other
existing claim conflicting therewith, and I certify that I
hâve found no trace or indication and hâve no knowledge
or information of any such claim except as follows: (if
none, so state; if any, give particulars.).
R.S., c. 301, s. 86.

**87.** If the survey of a claim is made and
advertised in the manner specified herein
before the recorded owner of the claim has
sufficientl}' complied with the régulations to
admit of his applying for a certificate of
improvements, then the posting and publica-
tion of notice of the survey of the claim in
the manner indicated shall be accepted as
satisfaction of the posting and advertising
requirements of section 64, but before a
certificate of improvements is issued in
connection with such a claim ail the other
requirements of section 64 shall be fully
complied with. R.S., c. 301, s. 87.

## TRANSFER OF A MINERAL CLAIM

**88.** (1) No transfer of an entry for any
minerai claim or of any interest therein, is
effectuai unless the transfer is in writing,
by the transferor, or by his agent
authorized in writing, and recorded by the
recorder; and, if signed by an agent,
authority of that agent shall be recorded
the record of such transfer.
(2) The assignment shall be in duplicate,
by the assigner in the présence of a
who shall furnish proof of exécution
by affidavit, and when recorded the mining
recorder shall return to the assignée one copy
thereof with a certificate endorsed thereon
that it has been recorded in his office, and
retain the other copy. R.S., c. 301, s. 88.

**89.** Where the record of entry (Form 3 of
Schedule I) has been lost or destroyed, the
mining recorder may, upon receipt of évidence
to his satisfaction, supported by the affidavit
of the recorded owner or owners, or one of
them, if possible, that such is the case, and
upon receipf of a fee of ten dollars, issue a
"substitutional" record of entry which shall
be so marked, and which shall be as far as
practicable a copy of the record of entry
(Form 3 of Schedule I) originally issued for
such claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 89.

**90.** Any conveyance, bill of sale, mortgage
or other document of title relating to a
minerai claim for which entry has been
granted under this Act may be recorded with
the mining recorder. R.S., c. 301, s. 90.

**91.** (1) Leases of minerai claims, and
renewals thereof, shall be executed in tripli-
cate, one copy to be forwarded to the lessee,
one copy to the mining recorder for the
district, and one copy to be retained in the
Department.
(2) Ail transfers, assignments and other
documents in any way affecting the title to a
minerai claim, or an interest therein, held
under lease, shall be presented to the mining
recorder for the district in the manner
prescribed in section 88, but in triplicate,
accompanied by the lessee's copy of the lease.
(3) When any such transfer, assignment, or
other document is duly registered, the mining
shall endorse on each of the copies
thereof the prescribed certificate of registra-
tion, and shall return one of the copies of
document to the assignée, together with
lessee's copy of the lease, similarly
; one copy shall be forwarded to the
Department and the remaining copy shall be
retained in the office of the mining recorder.
R.S.,c. 301,s. 91.

**92.** Where the holder of a minerai claim,
after applying for a certificate of improve-
ments, sells and transfers such claim, upon
satisfactory proof of such sale and transfer
being made to the mining recorder, the
transférée of the claim is entitled to a
certificate of improvements in his own name.
R.S.,c. 301,s. 92.

**93.** Where a transfer is made to any person
or Company after a certificate of improvements
has been issued, but before a lease has been
prepared, upon proper proof of such transfer
being made to the satisfaction of the Minister,
and upon receipt of a new certificate in Form
10 of Schedule I, the lease may issue to the
new holder of the claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 93.

**94.** The issue of the lease does not
invalidate any lien that may hâve attached
to any minerai claim prior to the issuance of
the lease. R.S., c. 301, s. 94.

## ROYALTY

**95.** (1) There shall be paid to the Crown
on every mine in the Yukon Territory,
acquired under this Act or under the Quartz
Mining Régulations that preceded this Act,
an annual royalty on any profits of such mine
that exceed the sum of $10,000 during any
calendar year, and the owner, manager,
holder, tenant, lessee, occupier or operator of
the mine is liable for and shall pay the Crown
an annual roj'alty as follows :
  * (_a_) upon annual profits in excess of $10,000
and up to $1,000,000 3 per cent;
(6) on the excess above $1,000,000 up to
$5,000,000 5 per cent;
  * (_c_) on the excess above $5,000,000 up to
$10,000,000 6 per cent;
  * (_d_) on the excess above $10,000,000 a
proportional increase of one per cent for
each additional $5,000,000.
(2) For the purpose of this section, ail mines
minerai workings in the Territory,
worked or operated by the same
or under the same gênerai manage-
or control, or the profits of which accrue
to the same person, shall, for the purpose of
determining whether there is liability for
royalty hereunder, be deemed to be and be
dealt with as one and the same mine, and not
as separate mines.
(3) The royalt}' imposed bj- this section
shall be deemed to accrue on the Ist day of
January of the year in which it is payable,
and shall become payable on the Ist day of
October, following in each year, and shall be
paid to the Commissioner or other officer
named by the Minister.
(4) In order to ascertain and fix the annual
profits, the gross receipts from the year's
output of the mine, or in case the ore, minerai,
or mineral-bearing substance, or any part
thereof, is not sold, but is treated by or for
the owner, tenant, holder, lessee, occupier or
operator of the mine, upon the premises or
elsewhere, then the actual market value of
the output at the pit's mouth, or if there is
no means of ascertaining the market value, or
if there is no established market price or
value, its value as appraised by a person to
be named by the Minister, shall be ascertained,
and from the amount so ascertained the
following and no other expenses, payments,
allowances or déductions shall be deducted
and made, namely :
  * (_a_) the actual cost of transportation of any
output sold, if paid or borne by the owner,
tenant, holder, lessee, occupier or operator;
  * (_b_) the actual and proper working expenses
of the mine both underground and above-
ground, including salaries and wages of
necessary superintendents, foremen, work-
men, firemen, enginemen, labourers and
employées of ail sorts, employed at or about
the mine, together with the actual and
proper salaries and office expenses for
necessary office work done at the mine and
in immédiate connection with the opération
thereof
  * (_c_) the cost of supplying power and light,
for ail employées aforesaid,
salaries or wages are made less by
of being furnished therewith, also
actual cost of fodder for horses used as
mentioned ;
(é) the actual cost of explosives, fuel, and
any other supplies necessarily used in the
mining opérations ;
if) any actual and proper outlay incurred
in safeguarding and protecting the mine or
minerai product ;
{g) the cost of proper insurance upon the
output, if paid or borne by the owner,
tenant, holder, lessee, occupier or operator,
and upon the mining plant, machinery,
equipment and buildings used for or in
connection with mining opérations, or for
storing the ore or minerai ;
  * (_h_) an allowance of a sum for annual
dépréciation, by ordinary wear and tear, of
the plant, machinery, equipment and build-
ings, such sum to be based upon the
probable annual average cost of repairs and
renewals necessary to maintain them in a
condition of efficiency, and in no case to
exceed for any year fifteen per cent of the
value at the commencement of such year,
such value to be appraised by an officer to
be named by the Minister ;
  * (_i_) the cost of actual work done in sinking
new shafts, making new openings.workings,
or excavations of any kind, or of stripping,
trenching, or diamond drilling in or upon
the land upon which the mine is situated,
or upon any other land belonging to the
same owner, lessee, holder, tenant, occupier
or operator in the Yukon Territory, or the
cost of any work that, in the opinion of the
Minister, has for its object the opening up
of mines, or testing for ore or minerais ; and
0) ail taxes payable or paid upon the
profits of the mine or mining work, or upon
the profits made in smelting, refining, or
otherwise treating any of the products of
the mine or minerai work.
(5) No allowance or déduction shall in any
be made for the cost of plant, machinery,
equipment or buildings, nor for capital
invested, nor for interest or dividend upon
capital, or stock, or investment, nor for
dépréciation in the value of the mine, mining
land, or mining property, by reason of
exhaustion or partial exhaustion of the ore or
minerai.
(6) For the purposes of this section, unless
a contrary intention appears, the opérations,
business, matters and things carried on,
occurring or existing during the preceding
calendar year, shall be taken as fixing,
assessing and ascertaining the royalty payable
thereunder, but the royalty payable shall
nevertheless be deemed to be a royalty for
the calendar year in which it is payable.
(7) xhe owner, lessee, tenant , holder, occupi-
^^' manager or operator . of r every mine from r
which ore, minerais or mineral-bearing sub-
stances is or are being taken, shall, within ten
days after the commencement of such active
opérations, notify the Commissioner of the
fact that such mine is in active opération, and
shall give in such notice the name of the mine
and the name and address of the owner,
lessee, tenant, holder, occupier, manager or
operator of the mine, and the name and
address of the manager or of some other
person to whom notice may be sent, (to be
known as the name and address for service)
and shall forthwith notify the Commissioner
of every change in the name and address of
the manager or person, and of every change
in the ownership, holding, tenancy, manage-
ment, occupation, or opération of such mine,
and of every discontinuance of active opéra-
tions, and of every resumption thereof after
discontinuance.
(8) On or before the Ist day of April in
each year, every person liable to pay the
royalty imposed by this section shall, without
any notice or demand to that effect, in
addition to any other stateraents which may
otherwise be required, deliver to the Commis-
sioner a detailed statement, in which shall be
set forth
  * (_a_) the name and description of the mine ;
(6) the name and address of the person or
persons owning or operating the mine as
lessee, agent, occupant or otherwise;
  * (_c_) the quantity of ore, minerais and
mineral-bearing substances shipped or sent
from or treated on the mining premises
during the year ending on the 31st of
December last preceding ;
  * (_d_) the name or names of the smelter or
mill, and the locality to which the ore,
minerais or mineral-bearing substances, or
any part thereof , were sent ;
  * (_e_) the cost per ton for transportation to
the smelter, refinery or mill, and the actual,
proper and necessary expenses of making
the sale, if any, and by whom paid or
borne ;
(J) the cost per ton for smelter and miU
charges, and by whom paid or borne ;
  * (_g_) the quantity of ore, minerais and
mineral-bearing substances treated on the
mining premises during the said year ;
  * (_h_) the value of the ore, minerais and
mineral-bearing substances shipped, after
deducting the charges for making sales and
for transportation or for treatment ; and
  * (_t_) the value of the ore, minerais and
mineral-bearing substances treated on the
mining premises.
(9) Such statement and information shall
be made and furnished by and under the oath
of the owner, manager, holder, lessee, tenant,
occupier or operator of the mine, and shall
also show in other columns the various
expenses, payments, allowances and déduc-
tions that may properly be made under
subsection (4), and such statement shall also
show by way of summary the total receipts or
market value at the mine of the year's output,
and the total amount of the expenses,
payments, allowances, and déductions to be
deducted therefrom, and the balance of profits
for the year as provided in this section.
(10) In addition to the statement referred
to in subsection (8), the Minister may at any
time of the year, require from any other
person connected with the opération or
management of the mine or mill, a statement,
under affidavit, containing such information
or particulars as the Minister may think
proper to exact.
(11) The Minister may enlarge the time for
such return or statement.
(12) Every person liable to pay the royalty
imposed by this section, shall keep at or near
the mine proper books of account of the ore,
minerais or mineral-bearing substances taken
from the mine, containing the quantity,
weight and other particulars of the same, and
the value thereof, and showing the returns
from the smelter, mill or refining works, or
other returns of the amounts derived from the
sale of such ores, minerais and mineral-
bearing substances; and no ore, minerai or
mineral-bearing substance taken out of any
mine shall be removed therefrom or treated
at any smelter, mill or refining works, until
the weight thereof has been correctly ascer-
tained and entered in the books of account;
and that person shall also keep proper books
showing each of the several expenses, pay-
ments, allowances, or déductions mentioned
in subsection (4) and showing any other facts
and circumstances necessary or proper for
ascertaining the amount of the royalty
payable hereunder.
(13) If anv doubt arises as to where such
book or books shall be kept, or as to how
many, or what books shall be maintained, the
Commissioner shall détermine the number
and character of the books to be kept, and the
place or places at which they shall be kept.
(14) jt is at ail times lawful for the
Commissioner, mining recorder, or mining
recorder's agent to enter upon mining property
for the purpose of making an inspection and
obtaining information as to the amount and
value of the output of the mine, and for this
purpose such officer may descend ail pits and
shafts, and use ail such tackle, machinery and
appliances belonging to the mine as he may
deem necessary or expédient, and he shall
hâve free ingress and egress to, frcm and over
ail buildings, érections and vessels used in
connection with the mine, and he shall be
allowed to take from the mining property
such samples or spécimens as he may désire,
correspondence and documents main-
or used for or in connection with the
opération and business of such mine,
and may examine the same and take copies
thereof or extracts therefrom, but any infor-
mation of a private or confidential nature
acquired by such officer shall not be disclosed
to anyone, except so far as may be necessary
for the purposes of this section.
(15) If the royalty imposed by this section
is not paid within the period herein prescribed,
ten per cent shall forthwith be added thereto,
and ten per cent shall be added at the
expiration of each year thereafter that the
royalty remains unpaid, and the increased
amounts shall, for ail purposes, be and become
the royalty due and payable under this
section.
(16) It is the duty of the Commissioner, or
such other person as may be directed by the
Minister, to keep a record of ail arrears or
royalty due, with the increased amounts from
time to time entered thereon.
(17) Ail royalties, double royalties, percent-
ages, penalties and costs, respectively , paj-able
under this section, are a spécial lien on the
mine, mining property, minerai claim, or
mining rights, and upon ail ore, minerai, or
mineral-bearing substances taken therefrom,
and upon ail machinery upon or connected
with the mine, in priority of every claim,
privilège, lien, or encumbrances of any person,
whether the right or title of such person has
accrued before, or accrues after the attaching
of such lien, and its priority is not lost or
impaired by any neglect, omission or error of
any officiai, officer or person, or by want of
registration, and the same may be realized by
action for sale of any or ail property, leases
and rights, subject to such lien.
(18) If the royalty imposed by this section
is not paid when due, it may be recovered,
together with the added percentages, from
the owner, tenant, lessee, occupier or operator
of the mine, by an action at the suit of the
Minister in any court of compétent jurisdic-
tion, together with the costs of the action.
(19) In addition to any other remédies for
the recovery of the royalty imposed bj' this
section, an injunction or order in the nature
of injunction, or the appointment of a receiver
with ail necessary powers, or such other relief
or remedy as may seem necessary or expédient
for securing payment of the royalty, may in
any case where the royalty is overdue, or
where the payment of the royalty seems
endangered, be obtained in the Territorial
Court at the instance and in the name of the
Minister, to prevent the removal, transporta-
tion, or transmission of any ore, minerai or
mineral-bearing substance, or to prevent or
restrict mining opérations, or to provide for
such opérations or production upon such
terms and conditions as may seem proper.
(20) Any action that may be brought under
this Act may be brought by the Minister as
plaintiff, and it is not necessary to name the
Minister, and the action does not abate by
reason of a change in the name of such
Minister, or by reason of the office being
vacant at any time, but the action may
proceed as though no change had been made
or no vacancv existed.
(21) In case of default of payment of the
royalty imposed bj' this section, the royalty
together with ail additions of percentages,
double royalties, penalties and costs, may be
levied and collected by distress, together with
costs of distress, upon the goods and chattels,
wherever found, of the person or any person
liable therefor, under warrant signed by the
Minister, or by the Commissioner, directed to
the sheriff of the Territory, and in such case
the sheriff shall realize the amount directed
to be realized by the warrant, and ail costs,
by a sale of such goods, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the amount
directed to be levied by such warrant.
(22) Anj' person who knowinglj- makes or
signs any false statement, or furnishes any
false or incorrect information to the Depart-
ment or any of the officers thereof, or gives
any false or incorrect information to any
officer or person in respect of any other
or thing required under this section,
or keeps or causes to be kept any false or
incorrect book or accounts regarding anything
under this section, with intent to
deceive, shall, in addition to any other
liability, incur a penalty of two hundred
dollars for every such offence, which penalty
may be recovered by summary conviction
before a justice of the peace having jurisdiction
within the district in which such false
statement or false information is made or
furnished, or before any justice of the peace
having jurisdiction within the district in which
such false book or account is kept.
(23) Every person who is required under
this section to make or furnish any statement
or information, and every mine in respect of
which such statement or information is
required to be made or furnished, shall, in
case of neglect to conform with this section,
incur a penalty of twenty dollars per day for
each day during which default is made, which
penalty or sum shall be added to and become
part of the royalty imposed by this section,
and such person and such mine are also liable
to pay a royalty of double the amount for
which it would hâve been liable, and any such
penalty or double royalty may be recovered
from any person liable therefor, under an
action brought in the name of the Minister,
to be tried by a judge of the Territory.
(24) Such régulations as may from time to
time appear to be necessary, shall be estab-
lished under the authority of the Governor in
Council for the carrying out of the provisions
and purposes of this section, and to deal with
cases that may arise, and for which provision
is not made in this section. R.S., c. 301, s. 95.

## TERM OF LEASE AND RENTAL

**96.** Leases of minerai claims and of iron
and mica claims shall be for a term of twenty-
one years, renewable for a further term of
twenty-one years if the lessee furnishes
évidence to the satisfaction of the Minister
that during the term of the lease he has
complied in every respect with the conditions
of the lease and with the provisions of the
and régulations, and renewable for
periods of twenty-one years on
terms and conditions as may be prescribed
by the Governor in Council. R.S., c. 301, s. 96.

**97.** The fees and rentals to be charged and
paid under this Act are as set out in Schedule
IL R.S., c. 301,s. 97.

**98.** In case payment of the rental and fee
for the first term of twenty-one years is not
made within the period of three months from
the date of the certificate of improvements,
or in case payment is not made of the rental
for the renewal term within three months
from the date upon which it becomes due,
then ail right to the claim or to a lease
thereof, or to a renewal of such lease,
absolutely lapses without any déclaration of
cancellation or forfeiture on the part of the
Crown, and such claim and rights shall
immediately be and become revested in the
Crown. R.S., c. 301, s. 98.

**99.** The lease shall be in such form as may
be determined by the Minister, in accordance
with this Act. R.S., c. 301, s. 99.

## ARBITRATION

**100.** Where the surface rights of a minerai
claim are covered by a timber licence, or by a
petroleum, grazing or coal mining lease, or
any other form of a terminable grant, the
lease shall not authorize entry thereon,
without the permission of the Minister being
first obtained, and that permission shall be
given subject to such conditions for the
protection of the rights of the lessee or licensee
as it may be considered necessary to impose.
R.S., e. 301, s. 100.

**101.** (1) Where the surface rights of a
minerai claim hâve been patented, or -hâve
been disposed of by the Crown under any Act
or régulation that contemplâtes the earning
of patent for such surface rights, and the
holder or lessee of the minerai claim cannot
make an arrangement with the owner of such
surface rights, or with bis agent, or the
occupant thereof, for entry upon the location,
or for the acquisition of such interest in the
surface rights as may be necessary for the
efficient and economical opération of the
rights acquired under his record or lease, he
may, if the minerai rights in the land affected
with access thereto and the right to use and
occupy such portion of the land as may be
necessary for the effectuai working of the
minerais therein hâve been reserved to the
Crown in the original grant of the surface
rights, apply to the Minister for permission
to submit the matter in dispute to arbitration.
(2) Upon receiving such permission in
writing it is lawful for the holder or lessee to
give notice to such owner, or his agent, or the
occupant, to appoint an arbitrator, within a
period of sixty daj's from the date of such
notice, to act with another arbitrator named
by the holder or lessee, in order to détermine
  * (_a_) what portion of the surface rights the
holder or lessee may reasonably acquire for
the efficient and economical opération of
the rights and privilèges granted him under
his record or lease ;
(6) the exact position thereof ; and
  * (_c_) the amount of compensation to which
the owner or occupant of the surface rights
shall be entitled. R.S., c. 301, s. 101.

**102.** (1) The notice mentioned in this
section shall be according to a f orm prescribed
by the Commissioner to be obtained upon
application to the mining recorder for the
district in which the land in question is
situât ed, and shall, when practicable, be
personally served on the owner of such land,
or his agent, if known, or the occupant thereof,
and after reasonable efforts hâve been made
to effect Personal service without success, then
the notice shall be served by leaving it at or
sending it by registered mail to the latest
known place of abode or address of the owner,
his agent or occupant, and by posting a copy
of the notice in the office of the mining
recorder for the district in which the land in
question is situated.
(2) The notice shall be ten daj's if the owner
or his agent résides in the district in which
the land is situated, if out of the district and
in the territory, twenty days, and if out of
the territory, thirty days, before the expiration
of the time limited in such notice.
(3) Where the owner, or his agent, or the
occupant of the land refuses or déclines to
appoint an arbitrator, or where, for any
reason, no arbitrator is so appointed in the
time limited therefor in the notice provided
for by this section, the mining recorder for
the district in which the land in question is
situated shall forthwith, on being satisfied by
affidavit that the notice has come to the
knowledge of such owner, agent or occupant,
or that such owner, agent or occupant, wilfully
évades the service of such notice, or cannot
be found, and that reasonable efforts hâve
been made to effect such service, and that the
notice was left at the latest place of abode or
known address of such owner, agent or
occupant as above provided, appoint an
arbitrator on his behaif. R.S., c. 301, s. 102.
IQS. In case two arbitrators cannot agrée
upon the .1 award j^u to be made, j^u they may, within iL-
a period of ten days from the date of the
appointment of the second arbitrator sélect a
third arbitrator, and when two such arbitrators
cannot agrée upon a third arbitrator, the
mining recorder for the district in which the
land in question is situated shall forthwith
sélect such third arbitrator. R.S., c. 301, s. 103.

**104.** Ail the arbitrators appointed under
the authority of this Act shall be sworn before
a justice of the peace, or a commissioner for
taking affidavits, to the impartial discharge
of the duties assigned to them, and after due
considération of the rights of the owner and
the needs of the lessee, or holder of the
minerai claim, they shall décide as to the
particular portion of the surface rights which
the latter may reasonably acquire for the
efficient and economical opération of the
rights and privilèges granted him under his
lease, or entry, the area thereof, and the
of any enhancement thereof from
existence of minerais thereunder. R.S., c.

**105.**

**106.** (1) The award of any two such
arbitrators made in writing is final, and shall
be filed with the mining recorder for the
district in which the land is situated within
twenty days from the date of the appointment
of the last arbitrator.
(2) Upon the order of the Minister the
award of the arbitrators shall immediately be
carried into effect. R.S., c. 301, s. 106.

**107.** The arbitrators are entitled to be paid
a per diem allowance of five dollars together
with their necessary travelling and living
expenses while engaged in the arbitration,
and the costs of such arbitration shall be in
the discrétion of the arbitrators. R.S., c. 301,
s. 107.

## ADMINISTRATION OF THE ESTATES OF

## DECEASED OR INSANE MINERS

**108.** Where the owner of a claim for which
a lease has not yet been issued, or the owner
of an interest in such a claim, dies, or is
adjudged to be insane, the provisions of this
Act as to forfeiture for non-performance of
work, or non-payment of assessment do not
apply except as hereinafter provided, in the
first case, either during bis last illness or after
his decease, and in the second case, either
after he has been adjudged so insane, or, if it
appears that the neglect or omission on
account or by reason of which such claim
would otherwise hâve been deemed to be
forfeited was attributable to his insanity, then
during such period prior to his having been
adjudged insane as he may hâve been shown
to hâve been insane. R.S., c. 301, s. 108.

**109.** The Commissioner may limit the
period during which ail or any interest in any
minerai claim, the property of such deceased
or insane person, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this Act that require annual
performance of work and payment of fées,
and may fix the date upon which the same
shall again become subject to ail the provisions
of this Act. R.S., c. 301, s. 109.

**110.** (1) At the termination of the period
fixed, the claim becomes subject to ail the
provisions of this Act, and if such provisions
are not complied with the title thereto shall
be absolutely forfeited where the estate of
such deceased person is the sole owner of the
claim, and the claim is forthwith open for
relocation without any déclaration of cancel-
lation or forfeiture on the part of the Crown.
(2) Where, however, such an estate is a co-
owner the interest of the estate is, upon the
termination of such period of exemption, ipso
facto vested in the other co-owners who hâve
complied with this Act, in proportion to their
respective interests. R.S., c. 301, s. 110.

**111.** The Commissioner may by order,
from time to time, extend the period of such
exemption as the necessity of the case may in
his opinion demand, but in the case of
deceased persons the period during which the
exemption applies shall not extend beyond
three years from the date of the death of the
deceased. R.S., c. 301, s. 111.
1 12. Where there is no other légal représen-
tative of the estate of any such deceased or
insane person, the Commissioner may cause
the public administrator or such responsible
officer as he may name, to take possession of
the property and administer it subject to the
provisions of any ordinance in force respecting
the administration of the estâtes of deceased
or insane persons in the Territory. R.S., c.
301, s. 112.

**113.** No exemption of the interest of a
deceased or insane owner in any claim applies
to or exempts any co-owner's interest from
the provisions of this Act with respect to the
annual performance of work and payment of
fées, and the rights of such co-owners shall be
continued, if they do or cause to be done the
prescribed représentation work and pay the
prescribed fées necessary in connection with
those interests not exempted from perfor-
mance of work and payment of fées. R.S., c.
301, s. 113.
person owns an interest in a claim, and
the co-owners who are required to perforai
and pay fées hâve, during the period of
such exemption, failed to perforai the work
required to be done thereon, the interest of
such co-owners may, upon that failure being
proved to the satisfaction of the mining
recorder, after notice of hearing has been
serv'ed upon ail interested persons in the
manner prescribed by him, be vested by order
of the mining recorder in such estate. R.S., c.
301, s. 114.

**115.** (1) Any person receiving from the
public administrator or other légal représen-
tative of the estate of a deceased or insane
person an assignment of a claim that has been
exempted from the provisions of this Act with
respect to performance of work and payment
of fées, because of the death or insanity of
the owner thereof , shall record such assignment
within two months from the date thereof, and
after the assignment has been recorded the
claim again becomes subject to ail the
provisions of this Act.
(2) Where the assignment is not so recorded
the provisions exempting such claim cease to
apply and the claim, at the expiration of the
said two months, becomes absolutely forfeited
and shall be open to relocation and entry.
R.S., c. 301, s. 115.

**116.** (1) Any person receiving from the
public administrator, or other légal représen-
tative of the estate of a deceased or insane
person, an assignment of an interest in a
claim that has been exempted from the
provisions of this Act with respect to perfor-
mance of work and payment of fées, because
of the death or insanity of the owner thereof,
and on which the other co-owner or co-owners
are required to perform work and pay fées,
shall within two months from the date of such
assignment, record the assignment and comply
with the provisions of this Act with respect to
représentation from the day of the recording
of such transfer.
(2) If the assignment is not so recorded,
and if the Act is not otherwise complied with,
the interest in question is thereupon ipso facto
vested in the other co-owner or co-owners in
proportion to their respective interests.
(3) If the co-owners who are required to
work and pay fées hâve failed to do
the interest of such co-owner or co-owners
upon such failure being proved to the
of the mining recorder after notice
of hearing has been served upon ail persons
interested, become vested in the co-owner who
has acquired the interest of the estate in such
daim, and who may hâve complied with this
Act.R.S.,c.301,s. 116.
NOLL-SITES

**117.** The Minister may, in his discrétion,
grant a lease of a tract of available.unoccupied
and unreserved Crown land, not known to
contain minerai of commercial value and not
exceeding five acres in area, as a mill-site;
but lands valuable for water-power purposes
shall not be open to lease for this purpose
except bj' authority of the Governor in
Council. R.S., c. 301, s. 117.

**118.** (1) The mill-site shall be marked on
the ground and surveyed in the same manner
as a minerai claim, and shall be as nearly as
possible in the form of a square, the boundaries
being due north and south and due east and
west lines.
(2) The term of the lease shall be for such
period as the Minister may décide, and the
rental shall be at the rate of one dollar an
acre per annum, payable yearly in advance
from the date of application. R.S., c. 301,
s. 118.

**119.** In case the mill-site is not utilized as
such to the satisfaction of the Minister, within
three years from the date of the lease, the
lease shall be subject to cancellation in the
discrétion of the Minister. R.S., c. 301, s. 119.

## TUNNELS AND DRAINS

**120.** Anj- holder of a minerai claim by
entry or by lease may, in the discrétion of the
mining recorder, obtain permission to run a
drain or tunnel for drainage or any other
purpose connected with the development or
working of such claim or mine through any
occupied or unoccupied lands, whether min-
erai or otherwise, upon security being first
deposited or given to such mining recorder to
satisfaction for any damage that may be
thereby, and upon such other terms as
thinks expédient. R.S., c. 301, s. 120.

## WATER RIGHTS

**121.** The holder of a minerai claim or of
-ii -^ i . •
any mill-site may obtain a grant to a water
right of any unappropriated water for any
mining or milling purposes under the Yukon
Placer Mining Act, or under the provisions of
the régulations for the disposai of water for
power purposes, according to the purpose for
which the water is to be used. R.S., c. 301,
s. 121.

## MISCELLANEOUS

**122.** Any person who causes damage or
injury to the holder of any claim other than
his own by throwing earth, clay, stones or
other material upon such other claim, or by
causing or allowing water that may be pumped
or bailed, or that may flow from his own
claim to flow into or upon such other claim is
liable to a penalty of not more than fifty
dollars and costs, and in default of the
payment of the fine and costs he may be
imprisoned for any period of not more than
one month ; this section does not deprive any
person of rights to damages. R.S., c. 301,
s. 122.

**123.** Nothing herein contained bhall,
except where such intention is expressly
stated, be so construed as to affect prejudi-
cially any mining rights and interests acquired
prior to the 19th day of July 1924, and ail
mining rights and privilèges acquired before
that day and hereunder acquired shall,
without the same being expressly stated, be
deemed to be taken and held subject to the
rights of Her Majesty, her heirs and successors,
and to the public rights-of-way and water.
R.S., c. 301, s. 123.

**124.** Affidavits and déclarations made
under this Act may be made before any
persons duly authorized to administer an oath
or déclaration. R.S., c. 301, s. 124.

**125.** The Minister, Commissioner, mining
recorder or any one deputed by any of them.
the right to enter into or upon and
examine any minerai claim or mine. R.S., c.
301,8.125.

**126.** Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to limit the right of the proper
authorities to lay out, from time to time,
public roads across, through, along or under
any ditch, mill-site, water right or minerai
claim. R.S., c. 301, s. 126.

**1.** On the day of 19 , I located
the minerai claim situated ihere describe the
position of the claim as nearly as possible, giving the name or
names of any minerai claim or claims il may join).

**2.** I hâve placed location posts No. 1 and Xo. 2 of the légal
dimensions on the said claim with the inscription on each post
prescribed by the Yukon Quartz Mining Act.

**3.** I hâve inscribed on location post No. 1 the following
words:

**4.** I hâve inscribed on location post No. 2 the following
words :
(// a witness post has been used the particulars as to such
post should be fully set oui).

**5.** I hâve marked the line between post No. 1 and post No. 2
as required by section 28.

**6.** To the best of my knowledge and belief the ground com-
prised within the boundaries of the said claim is unoccupied
and unrecorded by any other person as a minerai claim ; it is
not occupied by any building or any land falling within the
curtilage of any dwelling house, or any land under cultivation,
or any land reserved from entry under the Yukon Quartz
Mining Act.

**7.** The said claim has not heretofore been staked out by any
one in my interest.

**8.** I attach hereto a plan of the location as required by
section 31 of the Yukon Quartz Mining Act.
Sworn and subscribed to at this day
of 19
FOBM 2
Application for Fractional Claim (Sec. 41)
Mining District
I, , of in the Mining
District, make oath and say :

**1.** On the day of 19 , I located
the fractional minerai claim situated

**2.** This is a fractional claim bounded on the north by
on the south by on the east by
and on the west by and is more particularly de-
scribed on the sketch plan on the back of (or attached to as
the case may be) this déclaration.

**3.** I hâve placed posts of the légal dimensions (hère enumer-
ate each of the posts placed on the ground in locating the claim)
with the prescribed inscription on each post.
words :

**5.** I hâve inscribed on location post No. 2 the following
words :

**6.** The length of the location Une is approximately
feet.

**7.** I hâve marked the line between post No. 1 and post No. 2
in the manner prescribed by section 28 of the Yukon Quartz
Mining Act.

**8.** To the best of my knowledge and belief the ground com-
prised within the boundaries of the said fractional claim is
unoccupied and unrecorded by any person as a minerai claim;
it is not occupied by any building or any land falling within
the curtilage of any dwellLng house, or any land under cultiva-
tion, or any Indian reserve, or other réservation made in the
mining régulations.

**9.** The said claim has not heretofore been staked out by any
one in my interest.
Sworn and subscribed to at this day
of 19
FORM 3
Record of a Minéral Claim (Secs. 38, 40, 89)
Minerai Claim
Located by of from whom I hâve
this day received the sum of $10, being the fee prescribed by
the Yukon Quartz Mining Act for recording a minerai claim.
The claim is situated
The direction of the line from post No. 1 to post No. 2 is
The distance in feet is
(// a witness post has been used the particulars as to
such post to be jully set out.)
The claim was located on the day of
19
Recorded this day of 19
Mining Recorder
Form 4
Application for a Certificate of Work (Sec. 53)
Affidavit
I, , of , in the District of
make oath and say:
That I hâve done or caused to be done work on the
minerai claim, situated at in the Min-
ing District, to the value of at least $100, since the
day of 19
The following is a detailed statement of such work ...
(Set out full particulars of the work done in the twelve
months in which such work is required to be done, as
shown in section 53.)
Sworn and subscribed to at this
19
FORM 5
Certificate of Work (Sec. 53)
(Name of Claim) Minerai Claim
This is to certify that an affidavit setting eut a detailed
statement of the work done on the above claim since the
day of 19 , made by
bas this day been filed in my ofiBce, and in pursuance of the
Yukon Quartz Mining Act I do now issue this certificate of
work in respect of the above claim to
This certificate entitles to continue in pos-
session of the said claim for one year from
Mining Recorder
FORM 6
Certificate to group claim for the performance of work
(Sec. 52)
Certificate that annual expenditure may, after recording
daims, be made on any one of not more than eight claims
grouped together for the performance of work.
Mining District
This is to certify that in accordance with section 52 of the
Yukon Quartz Mining Act, the registered owner(s) or agent(s)
of such owner(s) of the foUowing minerai claims hâve filed a
notice of his (their) intention to group such claims together
for the performance of work:
Dated at this .... day of
19
Mining Recorder
Form 7
Certificate of Improvements (Sec. 64)
Minerai Claim
This is to certify that , of in the
Mining District, has proved to my satisfaction
that he has complied with ail the provisions of the Yukon
Quartz Mining Act, to entitle him to a certificate of improve-
ments in respect of the minerai claim, situated
at in the Mining District, and in
pursuance of the said Act I do now issue this certificate of
improvements in respect of the above claim to
Dated
Mining Recorder
This certificate will become void unless the prescribed
rental is paid within three months from its date.
(Form may be altered to suit circumstances.)
For M 8
Notice (Sec. 64(1) (d))
Minerai Claim
Situated in the Mining District.
Where located
Take notice that I, ,
intend, sixty days from the date hereof, to apply to the
mining recorder for a certificate of improvements, for the
purpose of obtaining a lease of the above claim.
And further take notice that action, under section 69 of
the Yukon Quartz Mining Act must be commenced before
the issuance of such certificate of improvements.
Dated this dav of , 19
For M 9
Application for Certificate of Improvements
(Sec.64(l)(a))
Applicant's Affidavit
I, , of in the Mining
District, make oath and say :

**1.** I, am the recorded holder and am in undis-
puted possession of the minerai claim, situated at
in the Mining District.

**2.** I, hâve done or caused to be done work on
the said claim in developing a mine to the value of at least
$500, full particulars whereof are hereto annexed and marked
"A".
(Note: Particulars must be exclusive of ail hanses and
other like improvements.)

**3.** I, , found minerai in place within the limits
of the said claim.

**4.** I, , had the claim surveyed by
who has made plans of the said claim.

**5.** I, , placed one plan on a conspicuous part of
the land embraced in such plan on the day of
19

**6.** I, , posted a copy of the notice hereunto
annexed and marked "B" at the same place as said plan is
posted on the day of 19 , and
another copy in the mining recorder's office, at
on the day of 19 , which said
notice and plan hâve been posted and hâve remained posted
for at least sixty days concurrently with the publication of
the said notice in the nearest local newspaper {to be named).

**7.** I, , inserted a copy of the said notice in the
, a Canadian newspaper published in and circu-
lating in the district, or in a Canadian newspaper published
nearest to and circulating in the district in which the claim
is situated where it first appeared on the day of
19 and was continuously published for sixty
days.

**8.** I, , deposited a copy of the plan in the mining
FOEM 10
Mining Recorder's Certificate (Secs. 64(2), 93)
Mining District
Minerai Claim
located Date recorded
I hereby certify that has published a notice
of his intention to apply for a certificate of improvements
(or that he has published a survey notice, Form 11) for sixty
days in the newspaper from the day
of 19 , a copy of which notice is attached;
that during the above period a notice in accordance with the
Yukon Quartz Mining Act has been posted and a copy of
the plan of the said claim deposited for référence in my
office; and that no notice of any action having been com-
menced against the issuance of a certificate of improvements,
or against the acceptance of the survey as defining absolutely
the bovmdaries of the claim, has been filed in this office.
The recorded owner of the claim at this date is
Dated 19.
Mining Recorder
Form 11
Survey Notice (Sec. 80)
Minerai Claim
Situated in the Mining District.
Where located
Take notice that a survey has been made of the above
minerai claim under instructions from the Surveyor Gen-
eral, and that at the termination of sixty days from the date of
this notice the said survey shall be accepted as defining
absolutely the boundaries of the said claim, unless in the
meantime it is protested, as provided in section 69 of the
Yukon Quartz Mining Act.
Dated this day of 19
R.S., G. 301, Sch. One.

## SCHEDULE II

## FEES

**1.** Recording minerai claim S 10.00

**2.** For a substitutional record 10.00

**3.** AppHcation for a lease and issue of same 10.00

**4.** For Certificate of Work
For one year 5-00
For two years 10.00
For three years 15.00
For four years 20.00
For five years 25.00

**5.** For a certificate of improvements 5.00

**6.** For a grouping certificate 5.00
If document affects more than one claim, for
each additional claim
For an abstract of the record of a claim
For the first entry
For each additional entry
For copies of any documents recorded
Up to three folios
For each additional folio
For recording a power of attorney to stake
from one person
For recordmg a power of attorney to stake
from two persons
For recording an assignment of a quartz min-
ing lease
Rental for whole or fractional minerai claim
granted under lease for term of twenty-
one years :
If acreage is 51.65 acres or less
Add for each acre or fraction thereof over

**51.**65 acres
Rental for renewal term of twenty-one years
If acreage is 51.65 acres or less
Add for each acre or fraction thereof over

**51.**65 acres
Rental iron and mica claim as defined by sec-
tion 17
Rental for renewal term of 21 years iron and
